Analysis of Proposed Consent Order to Aid Public Comment
In the Matter of Fandango, LLC, File No. 132 3089

The Federal Trade Commission has accepted, subject to final approval, a consent order
applicable to Fandango, LLC (“Fandango”).
The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for thirty (30) days for
receipt of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become
part of the public record. After thirty (30) days, the Commission will again review the
agreement and the comments received, and will decide whether it should withdraw from the
agreement and take appropriate action or make final the agreement’s proposed order.
Fandango provides a website and mobile applications that allow consumers to purchase
movie tickets and view showtimes, trailers, and reviews. Fandango’s mobile application for iOS
(“Fandango Movies”) has been downloaded over 18.5 million times and accounts for
approximately 20% of all of Fandango’s ticket sales.
The Commission’s complaint alleges that Fandango deceived consumers regarding the
security it provided for ticket purchases made through Fandango Movies for iOS. Specifically,
the complaint alleges that Fandango engaged in a number of practices that, taken together, failed
to provide reasonable and appropriate security in the development and maintenance of its mobile
application, including:
(1)

overriding the mobile operating system default settings that would have secured
the transmission of sensitive personal information to and from the mobile
application;

(2)

failing to appropriately test, audit, assess, or review its applications, including
failing to ensure that the transmission of sensitive personal information was
secure; and

(3)

failing to maintain an adequate process for receiving and addressing security
vulnerability reports from third parties.

The complaint further alleges that, due to these failures, attackers could, in connection
with attacks that redirect and intercept network traffic, decrypt, monitor, or alter any of the
information transmitted from or to Fandango Movies for iOS, including the consumer’s credit
card number, security code, expiration date, billing zip code, email address, and password. The
complaint alleges that the misuse of these types of sensitive personal information can lead to
identity theft and financial harm, the compromise of personal information maintained on other
online services, and related consumer harms. Furthermore, the complaint alleges that Fandango
did not have a clearly publicized channel for receiving security vulnerability reports, and as a
result, failed to receive a security researcher’s report regarding this vulnerability.

The proposed order contains provisions designed to prevent Fandango from engaging in
the future in practices similar to those alleged in the complaint.
Part I of the proposed order prohibits Fandango from misrepresenting the extent to which
Fandango or its products or services maintain and protect the privacy, security, confidentiality, or
integrity of covered information. Part II of the proposed order requires Fandango to (1) address
security risks related to the development and management of new and existing products and
services for consumers, and (2) protect the security, integrity, and confidentiality of covered
information, whether collected by Fandango or input into, stored on, captured with, or accessed
through a computer using Fandango’s products or services. The security program must contain
administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to Fandango’s size and
complexity, nature and scope of its activities, and the sensitivity of the covered information.
Specifically, the proposed order requires Fandango to:


designate an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for the
information security program;



identify material internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality, and
integrity of covered information that could result in the unauthorized disclosure,
misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information,
whether such information is in Fandango’s possession or is input into, stored on,
captured with, accessed or transmitted through a computer using Fandango’s
products or services, and assess the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to
control these risks;



consider risks in each area of relevant operation, including but not limited to (1)
employee training and management, including in secure engineering and
defensive programming; (2) product design and development; (3) secure software
design, development, and testing; and (4) review, assessment, and response to
third-party security vulnerability reports; and (5) prevention, detection, and
response to attacks, intrusions, or system failures;



design and implement reasonable safeguards to control the risks identified
through risk assessment, and regularly test or monitor the effectiveness of the
safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures, including through reasonable
and appropriate software security testing techniques;



develop and use reasonable steps to select and retain service providers capable of
maintaining security practices consistent with the order, and require service
providers by contract to implement and maintain appropriate safeguards; and



evaluate and adjust its security program in light of the results of testing and
monitoring, any material changes to Fandango’s operations or business
arrangement, or any other circumstances that it knows or has reason to know may
have a material impact on the effectiveness of its security program.

-2-

Part III of the proposed order requires Fandango to obtain, for any product or service
offered through client software, within the first one hundred eighty (180) days after service of the
order and on a biennial basis thereafter for a period of twenty (20) years, an assessment and
report from a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, certifying, among other
things, that: (1) it has in place a security program that provides protections that meet or exceed
the protections required by Part II of the proposed order; and (2) its security program is operating
with sufficient effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality,
and integrity of covered information is protected.
Parts IV through VIII of the proposed order are reporting and compliance provisions.
Part IV requires Fandango to retain documents relating to its compliance with the order. The
order requires that all materials relied upon to prepare the assessments required by Part III of the
order be retained for a three-year period, and that other documents, such as advertisements and
promotional materials covered by the order, be retained for a five-year period. Part V requires
dissemination of the order to all current and future subsidiaries, current and future principals,
officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future employees, agents, and
representatives having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of the order. Part VI ensures
notification to the FTC of changes in corporate status. Part VII requires Fandango to submit a
compliance report to the FTC within 60 days, and periodically thereafter as requested. Part VIII
is a provision “sunsetting” the order after twenty (20) years, with certain exceptions.
The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order. It is
not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the proposed complaint or order or to
modify the order’s terms in any way.

-3-

