132 3089
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

COMMISSIONERS:

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman
Julie Brill
Maureen K. Ohlhausen
Joshua D. Wright

In the Matter of
Fandango, LLC,
a limited liability company.

)
)
)
)
)
)

DOCKET NO.

COMPLAINT
The Federal Trade Commission, having reason to believe that Fandango, LLC
(“respondent”) has violated the provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and it
appearing to the Commission that this proceeding is in the public interest, alleges:
1. Respondent Fandango, LLC (“Fandango”) is a Delaware limited liability company with
its principal office or place of business at 12200 W. Olympic Boulevard, Suite 400, Los
Angeles, CA 90064.
2. The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint have been in or affecting
commerce, as “commerce” is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.
RESPONDENT’S BUSINESS PRACTICES
3. Fandango provides a website and mobile applications that allow consumers to purchase
movie tickets and view showtimes, trailers, and reviews.
4. Fandango launched its Fandango Movies application for Apple, Inc.’s iOS operating
system in March 2009. In December 2010, Fandango launched an iPad version of the
application. Fandango distributes the application through the iTunes App Store, where it
describes the application as the “#1 movie ticketing app featured in Apple commercials.”
The iTunes App Store lists Fandango Movies among the top 10 free applications in the
Entertainment category. The application has been downloaded over 18.5 million times.
5. Although the Fandango Movies application is free to install and use, Fandango charges a
service fee when a consumer uses the application to purchase a movie ticket. As of

1

August 2013, 20 percent of Fandango’s total ticket sales were from its iOS mobile
applications.
6. Fandango Movies allows consumers to purchase movie tickets regardless of whether the
consumer has a Fandango account. When a consumer purchases tickets, the application
provides a choice of payment methods, including an option to pay by credit card.
Consumers can choose to save their credit card information on the device for future use.
Each time a user purchases tickets after entering a credit card number or selecting a card
previously saved on the device, Fandango Movies transmits the consumer’s credit card
information, including card number, security code, expiration date, and billing zip code,
to Fandango’s servers. If a consumer chooses to create or log into a Fandango account
through the Fandango Movies application, the application transmits the consumer’s
authentication credentials, including email address and password, to Fandango’s servers.
SECURE SOCKETS LAYER CERTIFICATE VALIDATION
7. Consumers frequently use mobile applications on public Wi-Fi networks in venues such
as coffee shops, shopping centers, and airports. Consumers may use the Fandango
Movies application in such public environments. Indeed, during its launch, Fandango
marketed the Fandango Movies application as a way for consumers “to access movie and
theater information ‘on the go’, [and] buy tickets in seconds for more than 16,000 screens
across the U.S.”
8. Online services often use the Secure Sockets Layer (“SSL”) protocol to establish
authentic, encrypted connections with consumers. In order to authenticate and encrypt
connections, SSL relies on electronic documents called SSL certificates.
9. In the context of mobile applications, an online service (e.g., Fandango) presents an SSL
certificate to the application on a consumer’s device (e.g., Fandango Movies) to vouch
for its identity. The application must then validate the SSL certificate – in effect
verifying the identity of the online service – to ensure that the application is connecting to
the genuine online service. After completing this process, the online service and the
application on the consumer’s device can establish a secure connection that is both
authenticated and encrypted.
10. If the application fails to perform this process, an attacker could position himself between
the application on the consumer’s device and the online service by presenting an invalid
certificate to the application. The application would accept the invalid certificate and
establish a connection between the application and the attacker, allowing the attacker to
decrypt, monitor, or alter all communications between the application and the online
service. This type of attack is known as a “man-in-the-middle attack.” Neither the
consumer using the application nor the online service could feasibly detect the attacker’s
presence.
11. On many public Wi-Fi networks, attackers can use well-known spoofing techniques to

facilitate man-in-the-middle attacks.

2

12. To protect against these attacks, the iOS operating system provides developers with
application programming interfaces (“APIs”) that allow applications to create secure
connections using SSL. By default, these APIs validate SSL certificates and reject the
connection if the SSL certificate presented to the application is invalid.
13. The iOS developer documentation warns developers against disabling the default
validation settings or otherwise failing to validate SSL certificates, explaining that this
“eliminates any benefit you might otherwise have gotten from using a secure connection.
The resulting connection is no safer than sending the request via unencrypted HTTP
because it provides no protection from spoofing by a fake server.”
14. Application developers can easily test for and identify SSL certificate validation
vulnerabilities using free or low-cost, publicly available tools.
FANDANGO’S SECURITY FAILURES
15. From March 2009 to March 2013, the Fandango Movies application for iOS failed to
validate SSL certificates, overriding the defaults provided by the iOS APIs.
16. Before March 2013, Fandango did not test the Fandango Movies application to ensure
that the application was validating SSL certificates and securely transmitting consumers’
sensitive personal information. Although Fandango commissioned limited security audits
of its applications starting in 2011, more than two years after the release of its iOS
application, respondent limited the scope of these security audits to issues presented
when the “code is decompiled or disassembled,” i.e., threats arising only from attackers
who had physical access to a device. As a result, these audits did not assess whether the
iOS application’s transmission of information, including credit card information, was
secure.
17. Moreover, Fandango does not have a clearly publicized and effective channel for
receiving security vulnerability reports, and instead relies upon its general Customer
Service system to escalate security vulnerability reports to the proper employees. In
December 2012, a security researcher informed respondent through its Customer Service
web form that its iOS application was vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks because it
did not validate SSL certificates. Because the security researcher’s message included the
term “password,” Fandango’s Customer Service system flagged the message as a
password reset request and replied with an automated message providing the researcher
with instructions on how to reset passwords. Fandango’s Customer Service system then
marked the security researcher’s message as “resolved,” and did not escalate it for further
review.
18. After Commission staff contacted respondent, Fandango tested the Fandango Movies
application for iOS and confirmed that the application failed to validate SSL certificates.
Fandango discovered that the vulnerability also affected a separate iOS movie ticketing
application that Fandango developed and hosted for a third party. Within three weeks of
being contacted by Commission staff, respondent issued an update to both iOS

3

applications that enabled SSL certificate validation by restoring the iOS API default
settings, thereby correcting the security vulnerability.
19. Respondent engaged in a number of practices that, taken together, failed to provide
reasonable and appropriate security in the development and maintenance of its mobile
application, including:
a. Overriding the default SSL certificate validation settings provided by the iOS
APIs without implementing other security measures to compensate for the lack of
SSL certificate validation;
b. Failing to appropriately test, audit, assess, or review its applications, including
failing to ensure that the transmission of sensitive personal information was
secure; and
c. Failing to maintain an adequate process for receiving and addressing security
vulnerability reports from third parties.
20. As a result of these failures, attackers could have, in connection with attacks that redirect
and intercept network traffic, decrypted, monitored, or altered any of the information
transmitted from or to the application, including the consumer’s credit card number,
security code, expiration date, billing zip code, email address, and password. The misuse
of credit card information and authentication credentials can lead to identity theft and
financial harm, the compromise of personal information maintained on other online
services, and related consumer harms.
21. Fandango could have prevented these vulnerabilities and ensured the secure transmission
of consumers’ sensitive personal information, including credit card information, at
virtually no cost by simply implementing the default SSL certificate validation settings.
FANDANGO’S PRIVACY AND SECURITY REPRESENTATIONS
22. Fandango disseminated or caused to be disseminated to consumers the following in-app
representation regarding the security of credit card and account information stored on and
transmitted through the application:
Your Fandango iPhone Application allows you to store your credit card and
Fandango account information on your device so you can conveniently purchase
movie tickets. Your information is securely stored on your device and transferred
with your approval during each transaction.
23. When a consumer selects the option to “Buy” a ticket using the Fandango Movies
application, respondent disseminated or caused to be disseminated the following in-app
representation regarding the security of the transaction before presenting the consumer
with the option to pay by entering – and if desired, storing on the device for future use –
the consumer’s credit card information:

4

You don’t need an account to securely purchase tickets.
FANDANGO’S DECEPTIVE REPRESENTATIONS
24. As described in Paragraphs 22 and 23, Fandango represented, expressly or by
implication, that it provides reasonable and appropriate security for ticket purchases made
through the Fandango Movies application for iOS.
25. In truth and in fact, as set forth in Paragraphs 7 – 21, in many instances, Fandango did not
provide reasonable and appropriate security for ticket purchases made through the
Fandango Movies application for iOS. Therefore, the representation set forth in
Paragraph 24 was false or misleading.
26. The acts and practices of respondent as alleged in this complaint constitute unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a).
THEREFORE, the Federal Trade Commission this ___ day of __________, 2014, has issued this
complaint against respondent.
By the Commission.
Donald S. Clark
Secretary

5

