asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with NOTICES

69850

Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 226 / Monday, November 24, 2014 / Notices

your comment. Your comment—
including your name and your state—
will be placed on the public record of
this proceeding, including, to the extent
practicable, on the public Commission
Web site, at http://www.ftc.gov/os/
publiccomments.shtm. As a matter of
discretion, the Commission tries to
remove individuals’ home contact
information from comments before
placing them on the Commission Web
site.
Because your comment will be made
public, you are solely responsible for
making sure that your comment does
not include any sensitive personal
information, such as anyone’s Social
Security number, date of birth, driver’s
license number or other state
identification number or foreign country
equivalent, passport number, financial
account number, or credit or debit card
number. You are also solely responsible
for making sure that your comment does
not include any sensitive health
information, like medical records or
other individually identifiable health
information. In addition, do not include
any ‘‘[t]rade secret or any commercial or
financial information which is . . .
privileged or confidential,’’ as discussed
in Section 6(f) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C.
46(f), and FTC Rule 4.10(a)(2), 16 CFR
4.10(a)(2). In particular, do not include
competitively sensitive information
such as costs, sales statistics,
inventories, formulas, patterns, devices,
manufacturing processes, or customer
names.
If you want the Commission to give
your comment confidential treatment,
you must file it in paper form, with a
request for confidential treatment, and
you are required to follow the procedure
explained in FTC Rule 4.9(c), 16 CFR
4.9(c). Your comment will be kept
confidential only if the FTC General
Counsel grants your request in
accordance with the law and the public
interest.
Postal mail addressed to the
Commission is subject to delay due to
heightened security screening. As a
result, we encourage you to submit your
comment online, or to send it to the
Commission by courier or overnight
service. To make sure that the
Commission considers your online
comment, you must file it at https://
ftcpublic.commentworks.com/ftc/
rvaluerulepra2, by following the
instructions on the web-based form. If
this Notice appears at http://
www.regulations.gov, you also may file
a comment through that Web site.
If you file your comment on paper,
write ‘‘R-value Rule: FTC File No.
R811001’’ on your comment and on the
envelope, and mail or deliver it to the

VerDate Sep<11>2014

20:32 Nov 21, 2014

Jkt 235001

following address: Federal Trade
Commission, Office of the Secretary,
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Suite
CC–5610 (Annex J), Washington, DC
20580, or deliver your comment to the
following address: Federal Trade
Commission, Office of the Secretary,
Constitution Center, 400 7th Street SW.,
5th Floor, Suite 5610 (Annex J),
Washington, DC 20024. If possible,
submit your paper comment to the
Commission by courier or overnight
service.
The FTC Act and other laws that the
Commission administers permit the
collection of public comments to
consider and use in this proceeding as
appropriate. The Commission will
consider all timely and responsive
public comments that it receives on or
before December 24, 2014. You can find
more information, including routine
uses permitted by the Privacy Act, in
the Commission’s privacy policy, at
http://www.ftc.gov/ftc/privacy.shtm.
Comments on the information
collection requirements subject to
review under the PRA should also be
submitted to OMB. If sent by U.S. mail,
address comments to: Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs,
Office of Management and Budget,
Attention: Desk Officer for the Federal
Trade Commission, New Executive
Office Building, Docket Library, Room
10102, 725 17th Street NW.,
Washington, DC 20503. Comments sent
to OMB by U.S. postal mail, however,
are subject to delays due to heightened
security precautions. Thus, comments
instead should be sent by facsimile to
(202) 395–5167.
David C. Shonka,
Principal Deputy General Counsel.
[FR Doc. 2014–27721 Filed 11–21–14; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6750–01–P

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
[File No. 132 3219]

True Ultimate Standards Everywhere,
Inc., Doing Business as TRUSTe, Inc.;
Analysis To Aid Public Comment
Federal Trade Commission.
Proposed Consent Agreement.

AGENCY:
ACTION:

The consent agreement in this
matter settles alleged violations of
federal law prohibiting unfair or
deceptive acts or practices. The attached
Analysis to Aid Public Comment
describes both the allegations in the
draft complaint and the terms of the
consent order—embodied in the consent
agreement—that would settle these
allegations.

SUMMARY:

PO 00000

Frm 00029

Fmt 4703

Sfmt 4703

Comments must be received on
or before December 17, 2014.
ADDRESSES: Interested parties may file a
comment at https://
ftcpublic.commentworks.com/ftc/
trusteconsent online or on paper, by
following the instructions in the
Request for Comment part of the
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section
below. Write ‘‘True Ultimate Standards
Everywhere, Inc., Doing Business As
TRUSTe, Inc.—Consent Agreement; File
No. 132 32193’’ on your comment and
file your comment online at https://
ftcpublic.commentworks.com/ftc/
trusteconsent by following the
instructions on the Web-based form. If
you prefer to file your comment on
paper, write ‘‘True Ultimate Standards
Everywhere, Inc., Doing Business As
TRUSTe, Inc.—Consent Agreement; File
No. 132 32193’’ on your comment and
on the envelope, and mail your
comment to the following address:
Federal Trade Commission, Office of the
Secretary, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue
NW., Suite CC–5610 (Annex D),
Washington, DC 20580, or deliver your
comment to the following address:
Federal Trade Commission, Office of the
Secretary, Constitution Center, 400 7th
Street SW., 5th Floor, Suite 5610
(Annex D), Washington, DC 20024.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Jamie Hine (202–326–2188), Bureau of
Consumer Protection, 600 Pennsylvania
Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20580.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant
to Section 6(f) of the Federal Trade
Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 46(f), and
FTC Rule 2.34, 16 CFR 2.34, notice is
hereby given that the above-captioned
consent agreement containing consent
order to cease and desist, having been
filed with and accepted, subject to final
approval, by the Commission, has been
placed on the public record for a period
of thirty (30) days. The following
Analysis to Aid Public Comment
describes the terms of the consent
agreement, and the allegations in the
complaint. An electronic copy of the
full text of the consent agreement
package can be obtained from the FTC
Home Page (for November 17, 2014), on
the World Wide Web, at http://
www.ftc.gov/os/actions.shtm.
You can file a comment online or on
paper. For the Commission to consider
your comment, we must receive it on or
before December 17, 2014. Write ‘‘True
Ultimate Standards Everywhere, Inc.,
Doing Business As TRUSTe, Inc.—
Consent Agreement; File No. 132
32193’’ on your comment. Your
comment—including your name and
your state—will be placed on the public
record of this proceeding, including, to
DATES:

E:\FR\FM\24NON1.SGM

24NON1

asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with NOTICES

Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 226 / Monday, November 24, 2014 / Notices
the extent practicable, on the public
Commission Web site, at http://
www.ftc.gov/os/publiccomments.shtm.
As a matter of discretion, the
Commission tries to remove individuals’
home contact information from
comments before placing them on the
Commission Web site.
Because your comment will be made
public, you are solely responsible for
making sure that your comment does
not include any sensitive personal
information, like anyone’s Social
Security number, date of birth, driver’s
license number or other state
identification number or foreign country
equivalent, passport number, financial
account number, or credit or debit card
number. You are also solely responsible
for making sure that your comment does
not include any sensitive health
information, like medical records or
other individually identifiable health
information. In addition, do not include
any ‘‘[t]rade secret or any commercial or
financial information which . . . is
privileged or confidential,’’ as discussed
in Section 6(f) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C.
46(f), and FTC Rule 4.10(a)(2), 16 CFR
4.10(a)(2). In particular, do not include
competitively sensitive information
such as costs, sales statistics,
inventories, formulas, patterns, devices,
manufacturing processes, or customer
names.
If you want the Commission to give
your comment confidential treatment,
you must file it in paper form, with a
request for confidential treatment, and
you have to follow the procedure
explained in FTC Rule 4.9(c), 16 CFR
4.9(c).1 Your comment will be kept
confidential only if the FTC General
Counsel, in his or her sole discretion,
grants your request in accordance with
the law and the public interest.
Postal mail addressed to the
Commission is subject to delay due to
heightened security screening. As a
result, we encourage you to submit your
comments online. To make sure that the
Commission considers your online
comment, you must file it at https://
ftcpublic.commentworks.com/ftc/
trusteconsent by following the
instructions on the Web-based form. If
this Notice appears at http://
www.regulations.gov/#!home, you also
may file a comment through that Web
site.
If you file your comment on paper,
write ‘‘True Ultimate Standards
Everywhere, Inc., Doing Business As
1 In particular, the written request for confidential
treatment that accompanies the comment must
include the factual and legal basis for the request,
and must identify the specific portions of the
comment to be withheld from the public record. See
FTC Rule 4.9(c), 16 CFR 4.9(c).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

20:32 Nov 21, 2014

Jkt 235001

TRUSTe, Inc.—Consent Agreement; File
No. 132 32193’’ on your comment and
on the envelope, and mail your
comment to the following address:
Federal Trade Commission, Office of the
Secretary, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue
NW., Suite CC–5610 (Annex D),
Washington, DC 20580, or deliver your
comment to the following address:
Federal Trade Commission, Office of the
Secretary, Constitution Center, 400 7th
Street SW., 5th Floor, Suite 5610
(Annex D), Washington, DC 20024. If
possible, submit your paper comment to
the Commission by courier or overnight
service.
Visit the Commission Web site at
http://www.ftc.gov to read this Notice
and the news release describing it. The
FTC Act and other laws that the
Commission administers permit the
collection of public comments to
consider and use in this proceeding as
appropriate. The Commission will
consider all timely and responsive
public comments that it receives on or
before December 17, 2014. You can find
more information, including routine
uses permitted by the Privacy Act, in
the Commission’s privacy policy, at
http://www.ftc.gov/ftc/privacy.htm.
Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To
Aid Public Comment
The Federal Trade Commission has
accepted, subject to final approval, an
agreement containing an order from
True Ultimate Standards Everywhere,
Inc. (‘‘TRUSTe’’).
The proposed consent order has been
placed on the public record for thirty
(30) days for receipt of comments by
interested persons. Comments received
during this period will become part of
the public record. After thirty (30) days,
the Commission again will review the
agreement and the comments received
and will decide whether it should
withdraw from the agreement or make
final the agreement’s proposed order.
This matter involves respondent’s
marketing and distribution of a variety
of online privacy seals (‘‘seals’’) for
companies to display on their Web sites.
The FTC complaint alleges that
respondent violated Section 5(a) of the
FTC Act by falsely representing to
consumers the frequency with which it
reviews and verifies the practices of
companies displaying its Web site and
mobile seals. Specifically, the complaint
alleges that from June 1997 until
January 2013, respondent failed to
conduct annual recertifications for
almost 1,000 companies holding
respondent’s TRUSTed Web sites,
COPPA/Children’s Privacy, EU Safe
Harbor, TRUSTed Cloud, TRUSTed
Apps, TRUSTed Data, and TRUSTed

PO 00000

Frm 00030

Fmt 4703

Sfmt 4703

69851

Smart Grid seals. In addition, the
complaint alleges that respondent
provided to its sealholders the means
and instrumentalities to misrepresent
that respondent is a non-profit
corporation. The FTC complaint
describes, with specificity, that
following respondent’s transition to a
for-profit corporation in July 2008,
respondent recertified numerous clients
whose privacy policies continued to
describe TRUSTe as a non-profit entity.
The proposed consent order contains
provisions designed to prevent
respondent from engaging in similar
acts and practices in the future. Part I of
the proposed order prohibits respondent
from misrepresenting (1) the steps
respondent takes to evaluate, certify,
review, or recertify a company’s privacy
practices; (2) the frequency with which
respondent evaluates, certifies, reviews,
or recertifies a company’s privacy
practices; (3) the corporate status of
respondent and its independence; and
(4) the extent to which any person or
entity is a member of, adheres to,
complies with, is certified by, is
endorsed by, or otherwise participates
in any privacy program sponsored by
respondent. Part II of the proposed order
prohibits respondent from providing to
any person or entity the means and
instrumentalities (including any
required or model language for use in
any privacy policy or statement) to
misrepresent any of the same items in
Part I of the proposed order.
Parts III and IV of the proposed order
contain additional reporting
requirements with respect to
respondent’s COPPA/Children’s Privacy
seal. First, the proposed order expands
respondent’s COPPA recordkeeping and
reporting requirements to ten years.
Second, the proposed order requires
respondent to report (1) the number of
new seals it awards; (2) how it assesses
the fitness of members; and (3) any
additional steps it takes to monitor
compliance with the safe harbor
requirements. Third, the proposed order
expands respondent’s COPPA
requirement to retain consumer
complaints and descriptions of
disciplinary actions to include
consumer complaints related to
respondent and its safe harbor program
participants as well as all documents
related to disciplinary actions taken by
respondent. Fourth, the proposed order
imposes additional COPPA
recordkeeping requirements, such as a
requirement that respondent retain
detailed explanations of assessments of
new and existing applicants in any
COPPA safe harbor program.

E:\FR\FM\24NON1.SGM

24NON1

69852

Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 226 / Monday, November 24, 2014 / Notices

Part V of the proposed order requires
respondent to pay $200,000 to the
United States Treasury as disgorgement.
The purpose of this analysis is to
facilitate public comment on the
proposed order. It is not intended to
constitute an official interpretation of
the proposed complaint order or to
modify in any way the proposed order’s
terms.
By direction of the Commission,
Commissioner Ohlhausen voting ‘‘yes,’’
consistent with the views expressed in
her partial dissent.

asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with NOTICES

Donald S. Clark,
Secretary.

Statement of Chairwoman Edith
Ramirez, Commissioner Julie Brill, and
Commissioner Terrell McSweeny
We write to express our strong
support for the complaint and consent
order in this case.
The Commission unanimously
supports Count I of the complaint in
this matter, which is of paramount
importance, in light of TRUSTe’s unique
role in increasing consumer trust in the
global marketplace and ensuring the
effectiveness of relevant self-regulatory
frameworks. TRUSTe operates privacyrelated self-regulatory and oversight
programs for businesses and offers
certified privacy seals for program
participants, including (1) COPPA/
Children’s Privacy, which certifies
compliance with the Children’s Online
Privacy Protection Act and
implementing regulations; (2) EU Safe
Harbor, which certifies compliance with
the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework; (3)
TRUSTed Apps, which certifies the
privacy practices of mobile applications;
and (4) APEC Privacy, which certifies
compliance with the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Cross-Border
Privacy Rules System.1
In Count I, the Commission alleges
that TRUSTe promised consumers it
would annually recertify its selfregulatory program participants for
compliance with TRUSTe’s privacy
program requirements, but that, in many
instances, it failed to do so. Annual
recertification is a cornerstone of the
service TRUSTe provides. It helps
ensure that companies (1) continue to
follow TRUSTe’s program requirements,
(2) do not make material changes to
their practices or policies without
appropriate consent, and (3)
periodically consider the impact of
1 TRUSTe’s APEC Privacy certification program
was not the subject of the allegations in the
complaint. TRUSTe became an ‘‘Accountability
Agent’’ for the APEC Cross-Border Privacy Rules
System in June 2013, and issued its first
certification under that program in August 2013.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

20:32 Nov 21, 2014

Jkt 235001

technology and marketplace
developments in their privacy practices.
TRUSTe did not fulfill its obligations;
today’s order helps to ensure that
TRUSTe will do so in the future.
Consumers who see the TRUSTe seal on
a Web site or mobile app should be
confident that a trusted third party has
kept its promise to review and vouch for
the privacy practices of that Web site or
mobile app.
We also believe that Count II
represents an appropriate use of ‘‘means
and instrumentalities’’ liability. At the
time TRUSTe provided model language
for its clients’ privacy policies stating
that TRUSTe was a nonprofit entity,
there is no question that the statement
was true. However, after TRUSTe
informed clients of its for-profit status
in 2008, many clients neglected to
update their policies and continued to
represent that TRUSTe was a nonprofit
entity. These ongoing representations by
TRUSTe’s clients clearly became
deceptive once TRUSTe converted to a
for-profit entity. Yet for five years,
TRUSTe continued to recertify some
companies that included this deceptive
statement, that TRUSTe itself had
disseminated, in their privacy policies.
TRUSTe was well-positioned to rectify
the misrepresentation about its own
corporate status—it could have elected
simply not to recertify the companies in
question until the misrepresentation
was cured. It failed to take this
straightforward step and instead
continued to bless the language at issue
by giving the companies its seal of
approval.
In Shell Oil Company and FTC v.
Magui Publishers, Inc., which
Commissioner Ohlhausen cites in her
statement, the Commission concluded
that by providing customers with
deceptive statements, the respondent
furnished the means and
instrumentalities for its clients to engage
in deceptive acts or practices.2 In this
case, although TRUSTe disclosed to
clients its change in status, it continued
to recertify privacy policies using
language TRUSTe had itself supplied
about its corporate status that was no
longer true. TRUSTe’s recertification of
these inaccurate privacy policies is the
conduct we take aim at—it provided a
stamp of approval of a false
representation which TRUSTe’s clients
then passed along to consumers via
their Web sites. As such, TRUSTe
provided its clients with the means and
instrumentalities to deceive others. The
2 In the Matter of Shell Oil Co., 128 F.T.C. 749
(1999); FTC v. Magui Publishers, Inc., No. 89–
3818RSWL(GX), 1991 WL 90895 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 28,
1991), aff’d 9 F.3d 1551 (9th Cir. 1993).

PO 00000

Frm 00031

Fmt 4703

Sfmt 4703

application of means and
instrumentalities liability in this case is
consistent with the principle underlying
Shell and Magui Publishers, namely,
that one who places the means of
deception in the hands of another is also
liable for the deception under Section
5.3 The inclusion of this count is
particularly appropriate here, given
TRUSTe’s unique position in the
privacy self-regulatory ecosystem.
Companies that purport to hold their
clients accountable to protect consumer
privacy should themselves be held to an
equally high standard.
Partial Dissent of Commissioner
Maureen K. Ohlhausen
I support Count I of the complaint in
this matter because of TRUSTe’s unique
position of consumer trust as a third
party certifier. However, I do not
support the use of ‘‘means and
instrumentalities’’ liability in Count II of
the complaint and dissent as to that
Count.
TRUSTe was initially organized in
1997 as a non-profit. Before July 2008,
TRUSTe required every certified client
Web site to include in its privacy policy
a description of TRUSTe stating in part,
‘‘TRUSTe is [a] non-profit
organization.’’ On July 3, 2008, TRUSTe
changed its corporate form from nonprofit to for-profit. The company
announced the change to its clients and
requested that all clients update the
relevant privacy policy language on
their Web sites. Some clients did not
update their Web sites. When TRUSTe
recertified such Web sites, TRUSTe
would typically request, but not require,
that the client update their privacy
policy to reflect the change to for-profit
status.
Count II of our complaint alleges that
by recertifying Web sites containing
privacy policies that inaccurately
describe TRUSTe as a non-profit,
TRUSTe provided the means and
instrumentalities to its clients to
misrepresent that TRUSTe was a nonprofit corporation. The majority’s
statement argues that TRUSTe, by
‘‘recertify[ing] a statement that was
untrue,’’ provided to its clients the
means and instrumentalities to deceive
consumers.1
3 Commissioner Ohlhausen suggests that the
allegations underlying Count II would be more
appropriately viewed through the lens of secondary
‘‘aiding and abetting’’ liability. Regardless of
whether one could construct alternative theories of
liability, our concern is with TRUSTe’s own
actions. As discussed above, the deception here was
the result of TRUSTe’s own actions.
1 In the Matter of True Ultimate Standards
Everywhere, Inc., FTC File No. 1323219, Statement
of Chairwoman Edith Ramirez, Commissioner Julie

E:\FR\FM\24NON1.SGM

24NON1

Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 226 / Monday, November 24, 2014 / Notices

asabaliauskas on DSK5VPTVN1PROD with NOTICES

I disagree with this use of means and
instrumentalities. To be liable of
deception under means and
instrumentalities requires that the party
itself must make a misrepresentation, as
the Commission detailed in Shell Oil
Company.2 According to the majority in
that case, ‘‘[T]he means and
instrumentalities doctrine is intended to
apply in cases . . . where the originator
of the unlawful material is not in
privity with consumers’’ and ‘‘it is well
settled law that the originator is liable
if it passes on a false or misleading
representation with knowledge or
reason to expect that consumers may
possibly be deceived as a result.’’ 3 For
example, in FTC v. Magui Publishers,
Inc., the court found the defendant
directly liable for providing the means
and instrumentalities to violate Section
5 when it sold Salvador Dali prints with
forged signatures to retail customers,
who then sold the prints to consumers.4
Unlike Shell and Magui Publishers,
the statement that TRUSTe provided to
its clients was indisputably truthful at
the time. During the period in which
TRUSTe required client privacy policies
to state that TRUSTe was a non-profit,
TRUSTe was, in fact, a non-profit. Once
TRUSTe changed to for-profit status, it
no longer required clients to state its
non-profit status and actively
encouraged clients to correct their
privacy policies. TRUSTe did not pass
to clients any false or misleading
representations regarding its for-profit
status. Nor was TRUSTe’s recertification
of Web sites a misrepresentation of
TRUSTe’s non-profit status to its clients;
during recertification TRUSTe again
clearly communicated its for-profit
status to clients by requesting that its
clients update their privacy policies.
Because TRUSTe accurately represented
Brill, and Commissioner Terrell McSweeny, at 2
(Nov. 17, 2014).
2 In the Matter of Shell Oil Co., 128 F.T.C. 749
(1999).
3 Id. at *10 (Public Statement of Chairman
Pitofsky, Commissioner Anthony and
Commissioner Thompson) (emphasis added).
Similarly, Commissioner Orson Swindle’s dissent
stated that under FTC precedent, ‘‘means and
instrumentalities is a form of primary liability in
which the respondent was using another party as
the conduit for disseminating the respondent’s
misrepresentations to consumers.’’ Id. at *14–15
(Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Orson
Swindle) (emphasis added). Swindle’s dissent
likewise emphasized that a defendant ‘‘may not be
held primarily liable unless it has actually made a
misrepresentation.’’ Id. (quoting In re JWP Inc.
Securities Lit., 928 F. Supp. 1239, 1256 (S.D.N.Y.
1996)). See also FTC v. Magui Publishers, Inc., Civ.
No. 89–3818RSWL(GX), 1991 WL 90895, at *14,
(C.D. Cal. 1991), aff’d, 9 F.3d 1551 (9th Cir. 1993)
(‘‘One who places in the hands of another a means
or instrumentality to be used by another to deceive
the public in violation of the FTC Act is directly
liable for violating the Act.’’).
4 Magui Publishers, Inc., 1991 WL 90895, at *17.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

20:32 Nov 21, 2014

Jkt 235001

its non-profit status to its clients,
TRUSTe cannot be primarily liable for
deceiving consumers under a means and
instrumentalities theory.
TRUSTe’s alleged recertifications of
untrue statements are more properly
analyzed as secondary liability for
aiding and abetting.5 In Magui
Publishers the court found that the
defendant forgers were not only directly
liable for their own misstatements, but
also secondarily liable for the retailers’
fraudulent misrepresentations to
consumers because defendants
‘‘supplied their deceptive art work,
certificates and promotional materials to
their retail customers with full
knowledge these customers would use
the materials to deceive consumers.’’ 6
The court explained that aiding and
abetting has three components: ‘‘(1) The
existence of an independent primary
wrong; (2) actual knowledge by the
alleged aider and abettor of the wrong
and of his or her role in furthering it;
and (3) substantial assistance in the
commission of the wrong.’’ 7
It is not clear that TRUSTe’s clients
committed an independent primary
wrong. However, TRUSTe certainly had
knowledge of the misstatements in the
privacy policies and of TRUSTe’s role in
facilitating those misstatements. And,
arguably, its certifications may have
provided substantial assistance in
deceiving consumers. Regardless,
because TRUSTe never misrepresented
its corporate status, TRUSTe’s actions
regarding its corporate status at most
comprise aiding and abetting its clients’
actions.
Perhaps all this seems like legal
hairsplitting, but it is not. Under the
Supreme Court’s decision in Central
Bank of Denver v. First Interstate Bank
of Denver,8 the FTC ‘‘may well be
precluded from bringing Section 5 cases
under an aiding and abetting theory.’’ 9
By prosecuting activities more properly
analyzed as aiding and abetting under
the guise of means and instrumentalities
liability, I am concerned that we are
5 ‘‘[A] respondent who has provided assistance to
another party that has made misrepresentations is
at most secondarily liable—in particular, for aiding
and abetting another’s misrepresentations.’’ Shell
Oil Co., 128 F.T.C. 749, *15 (1999) (Swindle
Dissent) (citing Wright v. Ernst & Young LLP, 152
F.3d 169, 175 (2d Cir. 1998), cert. denied, 119 S.Ct.
870 (1999); Shapiro v. Cantor, 123 F.3d 717, 720 (2d
Cir. 1997); Anixter v. Home-Stake Production Co.,
77 F.3d 1215, 1225 (10th Cir. 1996) (‘‘the critical
element separating primary from aiding and
abetting violations is the existence of a
representation, made by the defendant.’’)).
6 Magui Publishers, Inc., 1991 WL 90895, at *15.
7 Id. at *14.
8 Cent. Bank, N.A. v. First Interstate Bank, N.A.,
511 U.S. 164 (1994).
9 Shell Oil Co., 128 F.T.C. 749, *19 (Swindle
Dissent).

PO 00000

Frm 00032

Fmt 4703

Sfmt 4703

69853

stepping beyond the limits the Supreme
Court has established. I therefore dissent
from Count II.
[FR Doc. 2014–27733 Filed 11–21–14; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6750–01–P

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention
[Docket No. CDC–2014–0015]

Request for Comment on Draft
Vaccines Adverse Event Reporting
System (VAERS) 2.0 Form
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS).
ACTION: Notice of request for public
comment.
AGENCY:

The Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC), located
within the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS), is publishing
this notice requesting public comment
on the proposed VAERS 2.0 form, which
is intended to replace the current
VAERS–1 form (https://vaers.hhs.gov/
resources/vaers_form.pdf). CDC and the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) co-administer the Vaccines
Adverse Event Reporting System
(VAERS), a post-licensure (i.e., after
vaccines have been licensed by the FDA
and are being used in the community)
reporting system that accepts submitted
reports of adverse events that occur after
vaccination from healthcare providers,
manufacturers, and the public.
Healthcare providers and vaccine
manufacturers are required to submit
VAERS reports. The National Childhood
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, section 2125
of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 300aa–25) authorized VAERS.
The current VAERS form has been used
since 1990.
DATES: Written comments must be
received on or before January 23, 2015.
ADDRESSES: You may submit comments,
identified by docket number CDC–
2014–0015 by any of the following
methods:
• Federal eRulemaking Portal: http://
www.regulations.gov. Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.
• Mail: You may also submit written
comments to the following address:
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, (CDC), National Center for
Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious
Diseases, Division of Healthcare Quality
Promotion, Immunization Safety Office,
Attn: VAERS 2.0 form Docket No. CDC–
SUMMARY:

E:\FR\FM\24NON1.SGM

24NON1

