Exhibit A

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http:// www. truste.c om/privacy-program-requirements/

Events

Blog

Newsletter

TRUSTe

e
Privacy Program Requirements
Home

Privacy Program Requfrements

Understanding Program Requirements

TRUSTe Program Requirements

TRUSTe Products
TRUSTed Websites

I. Structure
TRUSTed Websites requires compliance with the 'ollowing prog'am requirements. Upon sat1sfacto:y certification
TRUSTe provides companies with a TRUSTe Privacy Seal as evidence o< compliance - certified compan:es must
display this sea! on their website privacy policy page and may elect to place tt:e seal on add i!ional webpages as we! I.

For eComrP.erce and content
websites

EU Safe Harbor
Global reach with EU Sa!e Harbor

II. Definitions
The following definit;ons shall apply t:erein:

Children's Privacy
For web sites who market to chi'dren

A. "Behavioral Targeting" is the collection and use of information on an Individual's Online activity over a period of
time for the purpose of developing and using predictive models to determine potential future behavior or

Mobile Privacy
Certify your mobile apps and
websites

interests
B. "Clear and Conspicuous" means a notice that is reasonably easy to find, and easily understandable in terms of
content and style to the average reader.
C. "Expressed Consent" means the affirmative consent (opt-in) to a practice by the Individual, after being provided
notice, but prior to implementing the practice,

TRUSTed Email
Achieve email privacy certification

TRUSTed Ads
Ad privacy compliance just got easier

D. "Foreign Language Privacy Statement" is the Participant's Privacy Statement translated into a language other
than English.

TRUSTed Downloads
Certify your downloads to be safe

E. "Gee-location Data" is information obtained through an Individual's use of a Mobile Device and is used to
identify or describe the Individual's actual physical location at a given point in time.
F. "Individual" means the discrete person to whom the collected information pertains.
G "Inferred Consent" means consent which is implied by an Individual, regarding the collection, use , disclosure,
distribution of Pll after notice and opportunity to withdraw consent (opt-out) is given by Participant, but not
taken by the Individual.
H. "Material Change" means degradation in the rights or obligations regarding the collection, use, or disclosure of
Pll for an Individual. This usually includes changes to Participant's:
1

Practices regarding notice, collection, use, and disclosure of Pll and/ or Third Party Personally
Identifiable Information;

2. Practices regarding user choice and consent to how PII and/or Third Party Personally Identifiable
Information is used and shared; or
3. Measures for information security, integrity, access, or individual redress
"Mobile Device" is a portable electronic gee-location enabled device which allows the user to process, receive,
and send data without being limited to a specific geographical location.
"Online" is the state where an Individual is connected by computer or Mobile Device to one or more other
compL1ers, Mobile Devices, or networks , as through a commercial electronic information service or the internet.
K. "Participant" means the entity that has entered into an agreement with TRUSTe to participate in the TRUSTe
program(s) and agreed to comply with the program requirements included therein.

L. "Personally Identifiable Information ~PII]" means any information or combination of information that can be used
to :dentify, contact, or locate a discrete Individual.
M. "Primary Purpose" means use of Pll that is reasonably expected by the Individual (i) at tne point of collection;
and (ii) including compatible uses in features and services to the Individual that do not materially change
expectations of user control and third party sharing. Such use may be at least those uses described in the
Participant's terms of service governing the Participant's products or services which give rise to the Individual's
!nteraction with the Participant.
N. "Privacy Statement" shall mean the statements of Participant's information collection and usage practices, as
st.:ch practices are updated from time to time. Participant's Privacy Statement includes, but is not limited to:
1. A single, comprehensive statement of all the Participant's information practices ("Comprehensive Privacy

1 of 12

http://www.t:ruste.com/privacy-program-:requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

Statemer.t");
2. A summary notice t'ighlighting the Participant's information practices ("Short Notice") ; or

3. Disclosvre of specific ir.format:on practices posted at the point of ir.forfl'ation coliec:ion \ 'Just in Time
Notice') .
0 . "Pl.blicly Available Information :PAl)" means any 'rtormation reasonably believed t o be lawfully made availab1e
to the general public froM:
1. Fed eral. state o~ loca l governMent · ecord s;
2. Widely availa ble source(s) r.avlng no a dditiona l prohibition around onward trar.sfer or ~se ; or
3. Disclosures to the general pubiic that are required to be made by federa l, state or ro ca: la w.
P. Recipie nt" means the Individual who receives an Email Messag e.

a.

"Retargeting" is a form of behavioral advertising by which o~lir:e advertising is delivered to an lndiv;dual based
upon the Individual's previous online actions.

R. "Search Engine" is a publicly facing service that conects and organizes content from across tne internet for the
primary purpose of responding to a sea rch request. Such service may not retain information beyond caching or
ether service enhancing techniques, or use the information to c reate a persistent profile of the Individual for
purposes other than enhancing search tecMiques.
S. "Secondary Purpose" is t he use of Prr in a way that is not reasonably expected by the Individual relative to the
transactions or ongoing services provided to the Individual by Participant or the Participant's Service Provider.
Such purpose may or rr.ay not be described by Participant's terms of service governing Pa rticipant's products
or services which give rise to the Individual's interaction w ith the Participant

T. "Service Provid er" is anyone other t han the Parti cipant or the Individual that perfor ms, or assists in t he
performance of, a fi.J'lCtion or activity whic h may involve the use or disclosure of PII or Third Party Prr. Such use
must only be on beha lf of Particip ant or Individual and only fo r the purpose of performing or assisting in that
specific funct ion or activity as agreed to by the Participa nt and Individua l.
U. "Social Netw ork" is a n online service that offers the following features:
1. A platform that enables the interaction between two or more Individuals for t he purpose of creating
social or business relationships, and sharing of information;
2. Functionality that enables Individuals to create a profile that includes information of their ow n choosing
such as photos, and liroks to personal pages of other connected Individuals (e.g. friends, business
contacts):
3. Mechanisms to communicate w ith other Individuals such as instant messenger, email, or posting to a
profile or newsfeed; and
4. Search functionalrty that enables Individuals to search for other Individuals that is based upon that
Individual's preferences.

V. "Third Party(ies)" rs a n entity(ies) o ther than the Participant or the Individual which is not dir ectly affiliated w ith
the Participant; and, if aff~iated w it h the Participant. where such affiliation Is not r easonably known to the
Individual.

W. 'T hird Party Personally Identifiable Information [Third Party Pll]" means PI! t hat is collecte d by Participant from
an entity othe r tha n t he Individua l
Ill. Minimum Progra m Require me nts

A All Participants wanting to be certified that their Online information collection and use practices comply w ith
TRUSTe's Privacy Program Requ:rements must comply with the folowing requirements:
B. Participant AccountabHity
1. Participant shall have processes in place to comply with these Program Requirements
2. Cooperation with TRUSTe
a. Provide, a t no charge to TRUSTe or its representatives,

fl~l

access to the Online properties (i.e ..

ir.cluding password access to premium or rnembers on:y areas) for the purpose of conducting
reviews to ensure that Pa rtiC:pant's Privacy Staternent(s) is oor:sistent w ith actual practices.
b. Provide. upor. TRUSTe 's reasonable request. infor mation regarding how PII gathered from and/or
t racked through Partic ipa nt's

2 ofl2

O~line

p roperties is used.

http: I l www. truste. com/privacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

3. Ann;.;al Recmifi~1i.o.n
a. PartiC:pant

st>.all~;ndergo

re-certification to

veri~

ongoing compliance with !'lese Program

Requi:en>.er.ts ar.nual:y.
4. Termination for Material Breac~
a. In the ever.! TRUSTe reasonab:'y believes the Participant ~as rr.a!eriany breact~ed these Program
Requireme;:ts), TRUSTe may term!nate !he Participant's participation in t~is program upon twenty
(20) business days' prior wr itten notice ("Notice of Termir.C;!Ji2!l") :.ulless the breach is correc!ed
w·~hi n the same twerrty (20) business day period (''Cure Period").

b. Materia' breaches of tt~ese Progra!Tl Reql;irements incl~de bu!. are not limited to:
1. Participant's conti~ual. in!er.t:onal. and material failure to adhere to t~ese Program
Requirements;
2. Participarr.'s material

fail~re

to

perm ~

or cooperate

wit~

a TRUSTe 'nvestigation or rev'ew

of Participant's Online properties or practices pursuant to the Program ReqUirements;
3. Participant's contint:al, ir.tentiona:, and r:1aterial fai!L~e to comply with any Suspension
Obligations:
4. Participant's material faih.xe to cooperate with TRUSTe regarding an audit, complaint or the
compliance monitoring activities of TRUSTe; or
5. Any deceptive trade practices by the Participant

5. Suspension Status
a. In the event TRUSTe reascnably believes that Participant has materially violated these Program
Requirements, Participant may be placed on suspension.
1. Notice will be provided with a mutually agreed upon description of the violation and any
remedial actions that TRUSTe w ill require Participant to take during the Suspension Period
("Su~ension

Obligations")

2. Participant will be considered to be on Suspension immed iately upon receiving notice from
TRUSTe. Suspension shall last until such time as the Participant has corrected the material
breach or Program Requirements violation to TRUSTe's satisfaction, but not for a period of
greater than six (6) months ("Suspension Period") unless mutually agreed by the Parties.
3. Suspension Obligations may include, but are not limited to:
a. Compliance w ith additional Program Requirements;
b. Cooperation with heightened compliance monitoring by TRUSTe: and
c. Payment to TRUSTe of mutually agreed additional amounts as compensation for
TRUSTe's add~ional compliance monitoring.
d. Participant shall comply w~ h al! Suspension Obligations.
4. D1.ring the Suspension Period, Participant's status may be indicated via a TRUSTe
Validation webpage or TRUSTe may requir e Participant to cease using the TRUSTe
trustmarks.
5. At the end of the Suspension Period, TRUSTe will, in its discretion, either:
a. Determine that Participant has complied with Participant's Suspension Obligations ,
thereby satisfying TRUSTe's concerns;
b. Extend the Suspension Period by mutual agreement with the Participant; or
c. Determine that Participant has failed to comply w~h Participant's Suspension
Obligations and immediately terminate Participant for cause.

C. Privacy Practices

The following requirements apply if the Participant collects Pll :
1. Col:ection Limitation
a. Part;cipant s~all only collect Pit where such collection !s :
1. limited to infocma!ion re asonably usefu! for the purpose for which it was collected and in
accordance wi~h the Participant's Pr ivacy Statement in effect at tl:e t!me of collection; or
2. With ootice to and consent of the Individual

2. ~

3 of12

http:I lwww. truste. com/privacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

a. Participant shall use PI! in the provision of those services advertised or provided for, and in
accordar.ce with their posted Privacy S!ateme~t in effect at the ti!119 of collection, or wit'l notice
and

conse:~t

as described in 11ese Progra'l1 Reqlirements.

b. Information collected by the Participant or the Participant's Seri.ce ProV,der may be used to
the lndividt:ars ex;>erience O'- the Participant's Onlire property.

ta~or

3. Choice
a. Particioant shaD offer the Individual controi over their collected Persona;:y ldentif~abte lnformat on
as fornws:
1. Participant must provide the Individual an opport;;nity to withdraw conse~t to having PII
used by the Participant for a Secondary Purpose.
2. Participant rr.ust provide tre

lndivid~a :

a Just in Time Notice and the opportunity to

withdraw consent to hav'ng PI! disclosed or distributed to Third Parties , other t~an Service
Providers, at the time PI! is collected;
3. Participant shal! honor and maintain the Individual's chcice selection in a persistent manner
until such time the Individual cha~es that choice selection; and
4. Participant shall provide a means by which the I ndiv'.dual may change their choice

selectio~.

b. Consent is not necessary where the use, disclosure or distribution of Pll is required by iaw, court
order, or other valid legal process.
c. Express Consent must be obtained from the Individual prior to the transfer of PH to Third Parties
other than Service Providers if an tnaulhorized use or disclosure or that information woUd be
likely to cause financial, physical, or reputational harm to an Individual.
d. Privacy Statement shall state when the Individual can exercise control over the use and sharing of
their PI! and how to exercise t hat control
e. Such mechanism shall be easy to use and offered at no cost to the Individual
4. Collection and Use of Third Party PI!
a. Participant shall use Third Party PI! collected solely to facilitate the one-time completion of the
transaction that is the Primary Purpose for which the information was collected by the Participant
except as allowed in Section III.C.4.d regarding Search Services.
b. Participant must obtain Express Consent from the Individual to whom such Third Party Pll pertains
before such Third Party PI! may be used, disclosed, or distributed by the Participant for any
purpose other than the Primary Purpose for which such information was collected by the
Participant, except as alkmed in Section III. C.4.d regarding Search Services.
1 Participant may use Third Party Pll to send a one-time email message to the Individual to
solicit their Express Consent.
c. Regarding Third Party PI! t he Privacy Statement shall state:
1. The types of the entrty(ies) collecting Third Party PI! ;
2. What kind of Third Party PI! is collected, either through active or passive means;
3. How collected Third Party PI! is used ar>dlor disclosed;
4. What types of additional Third Parties if any, including Service Providers, collected Third
Party PI! is shared with.
d. Search Services

4 of 12

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http://www.truste.com/privacy-program-requirements/

1 . A Search Engine may provide search results cortaining Third Party Pll , w ithout the nctice
and choice req:Jirements noted above, providing:
a. The results were obta'ned from public or pub!:shed solJ"ces or. the 'nternet;
b. The information is not used to create a persistent profi:e of the Individual outside the
scope of enhancing Search Engine techn:ques;
c. Part!cipant shalf have a mechar.ism for the lnd:llidual to request removal from
displayed search results if the disp:ay o~ such reso..olts wil':
I Cause

pnysiea ~

harm to the lndiv!duai; or

Interfere w ith the safeguarding of imoortant cour.te!Wiling p ublic intere sts,
inc:uding national security, defer.se, o~ public secu~ity.
d. Privacy statemer.t shaii state how lndivid ~i can req~est removal from displayed
search results.
2. A Participant that compiles informatior. aboL.11 ndilliduals, who are rleither oustor:1ers of or
registered users of, that Participant's services; and then selis access to trat infor'llation to
Third Parties may provide search resi,;lls conta':ll:lQ Third

Pa~

PU without the notice and

cr.oice req:.:irements noted above. providing:
a. Informa tion

obtai~ed

about the Individual is from public or published solJ"ces which

have no prohibition around onward transfer or use associated With the information;
b. The Participant shall provide the lndivldLOal a mechanism !o stop having their
information displayed in search resu~s:
I Such mechanism shall be easily accessible to the Individual; and
Privacy Statement shan state how the Individual can stop having their
information displayed in search results.
c. This does not include situations where Particip ant disclosed Third Party PII back to
an entity tha t has rights to such information.

5. Access
a. Participant rrust implement reasonable and appropriate mechanisms to allow the Individual to
correct or update inaccurate PI I.
b. Participant rrust implement reasonable mechanisms to allow the Individual to request deletion of
Pll or that collected PII no longer be used.
c. Such mechanism should be consistent with how the Individual normally interacts or communicates
with the Partic ipant
d. Such mechanism or process shall be clear. conspicuous, and easy to use
e. Such mechanism or process shall confirm to the Individual inaccuracies have been corrected; and
f. Participant's privacy statement shall state how access is p rovided.

g. Participant is not required to permit Individual access to Personally Identifiable Information to the
extent that:
1. Such access would prejudice the contidential"ity necessary to comply with regulatory
requirem ents, or breach Participant's confidential information or the confidential information
of others;
2. Tne b\xden or cost of providing access would be o:sproport•onate or the legitimate rights or
interests of others woUd be violated. However, Participant may not deny access on the
basis of cost

i~

the Individual otters to pay the costs of access; or

3. The requested Pll is derived from public records or :s Publicly Available l nforma!ion and is
not combined with non-public record or non- p<~blicly available information.
h. If Participant denies access to Pll, Participant must orovide the Individual with an explanation of
why a::cess was denied and contact information for further inqui•ies regarding the denial of
access.
6.

P~omo!iona!

ar.d Newsletter Email Communications

a. AR rteWsletters and promotional email messages tha t Participant sends to the Individual must
include Participant's postal address and a functional unsubscribe mechanism.
b. The location and instructions concerning the unsubscribe mechanism must be Clear and

5 ofl2

http:// www.truste.com/pr ivacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

Conspicuous, and the rneci'.anism itself must be functior:ai for no fewer l'1an thirty ( 30) days
fo llcwi~

the sending of the r.ewsletter or promotional ema" message.

c. Participant must
e~aii

hono~

the lndividuars request to

u~slibscribe

f rom a r.ewsietter or promotional

message beginning on the tenth(~ O) bl.:Siness day a~er the Participa!'lt receives the

unsubscribe request,

~nless

the lndividua! subsequently requests to re ceive newsletters or

promotiona! emai: messages •rom Partic•pant.
d. An u1S~SC!'ibe mecr.anism is r.ot reqtired for admi:listrative or C!JStomer service-related email
messages (e.g. acco:.n t management or provisioning of requested services, warranty or recall
informat!o'l, safety or security annour.cemerrts).
7. P~,;biic Disclos~
a A Participant may allow a ~ser to post Pll in an o~line forum, chat room, blog or other public
forum, where the Pll being displayed was placed there by a user who is also

t~e

lndiV:dual.

1. If appropriate ar.d commercial'y reasonable, provide a process or mechanism to aliow the
Individual to request tirrely removal of any publicly displayed Pll where it r.as been lega:iy
and rightfui:Y shared; ar.d
2. State in tile Privacy Statement how the Individual can reques! removal of p ublicly displayed
Pll.
b. The Privacy Statement shall state information posted by Individuals in online forums, chat rooms,
blogs, or other public forurr. may be displayed publicly.
c. The Privacy Statement shal! accurately describe the extent to which an Individual's displayed Pll is
publicly available.
d. If Participant provides a publicly accessible online direclory or similar service, the Participant shall:
1. Provide the Individual a reasonable and appropriate mechanism to request removal of their
Pll from the directory;
2. Ensure the mechanism is consistent with how the Individual nor mally interacts or
communicates with the Participant
3. State in the Privacy Statement how the Individual can request removal; and
4. Such mechanism to request removal of a listing where access to the online directory or
similar service is limited to other registered Individuals may be contingent on the Individual
no longer using that service.

8. Material Changes
a Participant must notify Individuals of any Material Changes to its Pll collection, use, or disclosure
practices prior to making the change.
b. Participant must obtain prior approval from TRUSTe
1. For any Material Change in its Pll collection, use, or disclosure practices; and
2. For method and notice to Individuals, such as

ema~.

"in product" messaging, etc.

D. Privacy Statement
1. Participant shall maintain and abide by an accurate up-to-date Privacy Statement appro ve d by TRUSTe
in its sole discretion that states Participant's information practices and is in conformance with these
Program Requireme!its including, but not Emited to:
a What informat:on is collected, either thro~'Qh active or passive means, type of entity(ies), excluding
service Providers, col!ecting the information, and how the collected information is used;
b. 'vVI-.at types of Thrd Parties if any, incl llding serV:ce Prov!ders. collected information is shared
w it h;
c. Whether Pll is apper.de<i with informat;on obtained f rom third party sources ;
d. How and when the lr.dividual can exercise choice as required in these Program Requirements;
e. How the Individual ca'l request access to their information as required in these Program
Req~irements ;

f. \Mlat types of security measures are in place to protect collected information as reqt..ired in tl:ese
Program Requir ements;
g. What tracking technologies are used by the Participant or Third Parties including Service
P ro'iders and the pur pose for using those technologies;

6 of12

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http: I lwww. truste. com/privacy-program-requirements/

h. How the Individual can contact the Participant. !nciudir.g company name, email address or a !ink to
an cnline form, and physicai address:

• How the Individual wi:! be notff!ed of any Material Changes in the Participant's privacy practices;
disclos~;re p~.rsuant to judiciai or other goverrment
warrants, orders, or if the Par!;cipar.t <nergers w:th or is acql,jred by a Thrci Party, or

j. That collected informatio:'1 is sltlject to
s~bpoe!"as,

goes bar:krupt;
k. E~ective date of Privacy Statement:
if reqU:red, state~ent of participation ir the TRUSTe program and define participation scoce; and
m. Information on how to contact TRUSTe to express cor.cerns regarding Participant's Privacy
Staterre~t or privacy practices.
2. At a minim~,;m, Participant shall link to a Comprehensive Privacy Statemert that discloses the
Participant's information practices.
3. Access to the Privacy Statement shall be Clear ar.d Conspicuous.
4. As commercially reasonable. Privacy statement must be available when the Individual engages with the
Participar.t, s1.00h as through an application, Web site honnepage or landing page.
5. Privacy statennent must be available at the point where the Individual provides Pll, or through a common
footer.
6. Participart shall treat all conected information in accordance with the posted Privacy Statennent in effect
at the time of collection unless the Individual otherwise has given Express Consent.
7. Short Notice
a. If Participant chooses, they may provide a Short Notice highlighting their information practices
including but not limited to:
1. Summarize what information is collected by the Participant and how the Participant collect s
that information, either through active or passive means;
2. Summarize how Participant uses collected information;
3. Whether Participant shares PII with third parties, excluding Service Providers;
4. How the Individual can exercise choice and request access pursuant to these Program
Requirements; and
5. How to contact the Participant including company nanne, email address or link to online
form. and postal address.
b. Access to the Short Notice shall be Clear and Conspicoous.
c. Short Notice shall link to Comprehensive Privacy Statement.
1 . Access to the Comprehensive Privacy Statennent shall be Clear and Conspicuous.
d. Any Short Notice shall be consistent with Comprehensive Privacy Statemert.
8. Just in lime Notice
a. If Participant c hooses to provide Just in lime Notice, the Just in lime Notice shall be consistent
with Comprehensive Privacy statement.
9. Foreign Language Privacy Statement.
a. If Participant seeks TRUSTe certification of a Privacy Statement in a language other than English,
TRUSTe shall use commerciany reasonable efforts to verity that Participant's Foreign Language
Privacy Statement is an accurate trans:ation of Participant's English lar.guage Privacy Statement.
b. Participant shall ensure that its privacy practices are the same, and that the Foreigr. Language
Privacy Statement provides materially the same description o"f Participant's privacy practices as
Participant's Engish Language Privacy Statennent.
c . Participant must notify TRUSTe of any Material Changes to its Foreign Language Privacy
Statement and submit changes to TRUSTe for review and approval.

E. Data Governance
1. Participant shall :mplement controls and processes to manage and protect Pll witrlin its contra: including
the ones listed in this Section Ill. E.
a. Such controls and processes shall be
1. Appropriate to the size of the Participant's business: and

7 of12

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http:// www. truste. com/privacy-program-requirements/

2. Appropriate to the level of sensitivity of the data coliected and stored

2. Data Secu_:tty
a. Participant must impler.1ent co1Tl1'1erciaily reasonable procedures to protect Pll within iis control
from <.~nal..'thori;zed access, :JSe, alterat!on,

disc~os~.re,

or dis!ribution.

b. Participant sha~ maintair. and audit internal information techr'!o:ogy systems with'n Part:cipant's
control such as:

1 . Regularly rr.onitor and repair systems inc!;;ding server s and desktops for know:-1
vulnerabilities;

2. Li:nit access

ar~d

use of PI I, or Third Party Pll, to persomel with a legitimate business

need where inappropr:ate access, use, or disclosure of such Pll, or Third Party Pll. could
cause financial, physical, or reputational harm tc the Individual;

3. Implement

protectio~

against ohishing, spa'Tl, viruses, d ata !oss, and malware; and

4 . Use reasonable encryption methods for trarsmission of Information across wireless
networks, and storage of information if !he inappropriate use or disclosure of that
information could cause financial, physical, or reputational harm to an individua:
c. Participant shali utilize encryption suc!'l as Secure Socket Layer for the trans!llission of information
if the inappropriate use or

disclos~.re

of that information could cause financia;, physical, or

reputational harm to an individual.
d. Access to Pll or Thrd Party Pll retained by Participant must be at least restricted by username
and password if the inappropriate use or disclosure of that information co~d cause financial,
physical. or reputational harm to an individual.
e. Privacy Statement shall state that security measures are in place to p rotect collected Pll and/or
Third Party Pll.
3 . Dat~

a. Participant shall take commercially reasonable steps whe n collecting , creating, maintaining, using,
disclosing or distributing Pll to assure that the information is sufficiently accurate, complete.
relevant, and timely for the

p~.rposes

for which such information is to be used.

b. If any information collected by the Participant about an Individual is disputed by that Individual and
is found to be inaccurate, incomplete, or cannot be verified, Participant shall promptly delete or
modify that item of information, as appropriate, based on the resu~s of the investigation.
4. Data Retention
a. If a Participant receives and retains Pll or Third Party Pll, the Participant must ~mit its retention to
no longer than commercially useful to carry out its business p~.rpose , or legally required; and must
disclose in their Privacy Statement how long they w ill retain that information.
b . Regardless of the time period of retention. so long as a Participant has Pll or Third Party PII in its
p ossession or control, the requirements included herein shall apply to such information.
5. Service Providers
a. Participant must take commercially reasonable ste ps to ensure that it's Service Providers with
whom it shares Pll either:
1. Abide by Participant's privacy policies as reflected in Participant's Privacy Statement; or
2. Abide by privacy policies that are substantially equivalent to Participant's privacy policies as
reflected i:1 Participant's Privacy Statement; and
3. Abide by the r'ghts and obligatior:s attached to the Pll by the Participant regarding the
security, confidentiality, 'ntegrity, use. and d:sclosure of the Pll.

6. User Complaints and Feedback
a. Partic!pant shall provide users with reasonable, appropriate, simple and effective means to submit
complaints, express concerns. or provide feedback regarding Participant's privacy practices.
b. Participant shall aiso cooperate w ith TRUSTe's efforts to investigate and resolve non-frivolous
pr!vacy complaints, questio:1S and concerns raised eithe r by:
1. User s through TRUSTe's
2. TRUSTe .

7. Data Breach

8ofl2

disp~e

resolution process; or

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http: I /www. trus te.com/privacy-program-requirements/

a. Participant must notify an Individual of a data breach within 45-days of a known breach as
required by law or if the unauthorized disclosure of Pll can cause financial, physical. or
reputational harm to the Individual urJess ot~erwise required by law.
b. Ur le:ss otherwise reqLi~eid by law, notice to t~ Individual r.1ust d:sclose the foilowing:
1. That a breach occurred;
2. What type of information was breached;
3. When the breach happened;
4. What steps lr.dividuais can take to protect themselves;
5. What the actio~s the Participar.t is taking regarding the breach (e. g. ir!vestigat'o'1); and
6. What steps the Par.icipant 's taking to ensure the event does not happen again.
c. Participant must notify TRUSTe when 't believes a data breach occurred. Participar.t must provide
TRUSTe a copy of the notce to be sent or sent to affected lndividua!(s).

F. Behavioral Targeting
1. Participar.ts engaging in Behavio~al Targeting or Retargeting shall disclose the following regarding
Participant's Behavioral Targeting and/or Retargeting Practices in its Privacy Statement:
a. If information. collected either through active or passive means. is used by eit!'er tile Participant
or Third Party(ies) for the purpose of Behavioral Targeting or Retargeting;
b. If Pll collected by the Participant is lir.ked to information collected through Web usage activity
from sources, e.g. Web srtes other than Participant's, for the purpose of Behavioral Targeting or
Retargeting;
c. Whether PII or Third Party PII is collected by, or shared with, additional Third Parties for the
purposes of Behavioral Targef1ng or Retargeting; and
d . How and when the Individual can exercise choice as required in this Section Ill. F.

2. Participant shall provide instructions or link to a mechanism that enables the Individual to withdraw
consent for the use of their information for the purposes of behavioral advertising.
a. At a minimum. such instructions or link shall be made available in the Participant's Privacy
Statement.
3. Participant engaging in Behavioral Targeting or Retargeting shall offer choice to the Individual as follows:
a. An Individual must be provided an opportunity to withdraw consent to having Pll linked to
information collected through web usage activity for the purpose of Behavioral Targeting or
Retargeting;
b. An Individual must be provided an opportunity to withdraw consent to having Pll shared with Third
Parties, other than Service Providers, for the pu-pose of Behavioral Targeting or Retargeting at
the time such PII is collected; and
c. Express Consent must be obtained prior to sharing Pll with Third Parties, other than Service
Providers. for the purposes of Bet-.avioral Targeting or Retargeting, ~ the unauthorized use or
disclosure of that information could cause financial, or physical harm to an Individual.

G. Social Networks
1. Partlc:pants that enable users to network with other users of a community need to comply with the
follow'ng:
a. Express Consent with confirmation is required for an Individual to establish a profile.
b. Provide a reasonable and appropriate mechanism to allow the Individual to manage their privacy
settings.
1. Mechanism shot.Kt be consistent with how the Individual norr.1ally interacts

o~

communicates w~h tre Participant
2. Mechanisr.1 st-,all be clear. conspict.'Ous, and easy to use
3. Mechanism shall confirm to Individual that privacy settings have been set; and
4. Privacy Statement shall state how the Individual can update their privacy settings.
c. Provide a reasonable and appropriate mecha~ism to allow the Individual req;;est deletion or
deactivation of a profile.
1. Mechanism sho~ ld be ccnsistert with how the Individual normar:y interacts or

9 of 12

http:I!www. trus te. cornlprivacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

co~mtr.icates

with the Participant

2. Mec'larism shal! be clea~. conspicuous, and easy to use
3. Mecharism shall co!1firm to l ndividaal profiie has bee'l deleted or deactivated; and
4. Privacy Stater.>e:-:t sha'' s~ate how ~he l~ividaal can •eqaest delet:on or deactivation cf
their profile
d. ProV:de a reasonable and appropriate r.>echa~sm to aliow !he l ndividl;a! to req..:est remova' of an
unauthorizecl profile.
1. Mechanism should be consistent with how the Individual normaily

i~teracts

or

cor:1muO:cates with the Participant
2. Mec'lanism shall be clear, conspicuous, and easy to use
3. Mechanism shall confirm to Individual the

u~ai.ilhorized

profile has been rer.10ved; and

4. Privacy Statement shall state how tne Individual can reqaest removal of an unauthorized
profile.
e. lndividvals between the ages 13-17 must provide Express Consent to the co!:ectior., use,
disclosll"e of either:
1 . Pll pertaining to that I ndMdual; or
2. Third Party Pll pertaining to an Individual between the ages of 13- 17.
f. If Participant enables users to import Third Party Pll from another soll"ce to their profile, the
Participant must do the following:
1. Treat all collected information as if it is Third Party Pll as outlined in Section III.C.4.
a. Conected i nformation cannot be used to create a publishable prof ile unless the
Partic ipant obtains the Express Consent of the Individual.
2. Provide Clear and Conspicuous notice to the user as to why they are providing a password
or other access to their email account; and

IV. US-EU and US-Swiss Safe Harbor Requirements
A

Participants want to self-certify with the Department of Commerce (DOC) for compnance w ith the U.S.-E.U.
Safe Harbor or Swiss Safe Harbor Frameworks and list TRUSTe as its third party dispute resolution
mechanism must comply with the Minimum Program Requirements and the following:
1. Participant must provide an Individual with access to Pll within thirty (30) calendar days of request.
a. If Participant does not provide an Individual the requested access within thirty (30) calendar days
of the Individual's request, Participant must provide the Individual with a timeline establishing when
the requested access will be provided.
b. P rivacy Statement shall disdose the timeline establishing when the Individual can expect a
response to their request for access.
2. Privacy Statement shall include the fol lowing statement: "[Participant] complies w ith t he [E. U.][Swiss]
Safe Harbor Framework as set forth by the U.S. Department o f Commerce regarding the collection. use
and retention of personal information from [the European Union][Switzerland]."
a. The sta tement must include the following link to the Department of Commerce's Web site:
http://export.gov/safeharbor

V. Additional Email Requirements
A. Particlpa~ts wanting to be certified for practices around tt:e sending of commercia! and promotional email must
comply with the Minimun Program Reqlirements and the followi~:
1. Participants must ensll"e that the following disclosures are accessible from the point of email address
collection except w here email address is used only to authenticate an Individual for purposes of
accessing that lndividuar s account information:
a. The nature of commercial or promotional email messages to be sent and the typ es of ent~ ies that
will be providing content;
b. Whether Participant sells, rents or otherwise shares Recipients' emaii address with Third Parties
o ther than Service Providers; and
c. If receiving commercial or promotional email messages is a requir\=!ment to receive a service. a
disclosure of such requirement.

10 of 12

http: II www. truste.corn/pri vacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

2. Prior to sending comme~cial or promotional email messages the Recipient must be provided the
opportunity to w ~ hdraw consent to having his/her email address added to a mailing !ist. Commercial or
promotiona! email messages sent under this form of consent must inci:Jde Clear and Conspicuo~s
iden!ificat:or~ that

the message :s an advertisement or solicitation.

3. If Part'cipant has not co!:ected the Recipie~t's emai! address directly, the Participant must perform due
diligence to ens<Jre that Clear

a~d

Conspicuous notice was provided regarding the use and cisciosure of

the Recipient's email address, and that the lndiV:dual had the opportunity to withdraw consent.
B. Particioant Accountability. Participa~t shal: er.sure that the mail ir.frast!'\.o'CtlJ'"e used to send email r,.essages is
well maintained and operated

:r. a responsible manr.er:

1. Email address rtst maintenar.ce systems must be employed to reliabiy receive and process boLoxes a~d
other replies

~rom

re ceiving re!works.

2. The Participant's IP address(es) for outgoing emali must have valid reverse DNS entries. The IP address
of

H·.e host name of the reverse DNS entry m"Jst match the I P address of the ser:ding maii server.

3. Partic'pant mt.:st c~eate and maintain the standard role emaii accounts abuse@sender.domain and
postmaster@sender.domain for all of Hs domains that send email

:r. order to facilitate handling

complaints and other issues.
4. Participant must comply w ith relevant internet standards such as the Network Working Group Request
for Comment ("RFC") Nos. 2821 and 2822, which describe how Email Messages m;;st be formatted in
order to be processed properly by receiving networks
C. Transparency. Participant shall ensure that email messages are truthful and accurately identify the source of
the message.
1. The domain name or message headers must not be falsified or obscured in any way.
2. The subject line and content of every email message must not be false or misleading.

VI. Mobile Services

A. Participants wanting to be certified for collecting Pll through an application on a Mobile Device or through a
Web site optimized for a Mobile Device must comply wHh the Minimum Program Requirements and the
following:
B. Mobae Short Notice
1. Participants will provide enhanced notice outside of the Privacy Statement by linking from a TRUSTe icon
or text link to a TRUSTe-hosted Short Notice.
2. T he following disclosur es will appear within the TRUSTe-hosted Short 1\btice:
a. Whether gee-location data is collected and how gee-location data is used;
b. What types of information is collected and how It is used;
c. Whether Participant shares Pll with Third Parties, including Service Providers;
d. How the Individual can exercise choice and request access pursuant to these Program
Requirements;
e. What tracking technologies are used by the Participant or Third Parties including Service
Providers and the purpose for using those technologies;
f. What security measures are in place to protect collected information as required in these Program
Requirements; and
g. How the Individual can contact the Participant. including company name, email address or a link to
an online form, and physical address.

C . Gee-location Data
1 . Participar.t must obtain Express Consent from the Individual the first time Geo-iocation Data is used by
the Participant to provide services.
2. Participant may provide additional notifications through a Just in Time Notice or a persistent icon, to
remind Individuals that their Gee-location Data is being used by the Participant to provide a service.
3. Participant must obtain Express Consent from the Individual prior to the sharing of Geo-location Data
with Third Parties other than Service Providers.
4. Participant must obtain Express Consent from the Individual p rior to any use of Gee-location Data for
Secondary Purposes.
D. Privacy Statement s hall state:

11 of 12

http: II ww w. truste. cornlpri vacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

1. IMlat information is collected from an Individual's Mobile Device;
2. 1/Vhether i~forma:ion is shared with another application installed or. the Individual's Mobile Device;
3. How Gao-location Data is used;
4. If Gee-location Data is l:sed to c:-eate a profi!e about the lndivktual;
5. How !ong Geo-locat:on Data is retair.ed;
6. IMlat type of Third Parties, includ'ng service ProV.ders is Gee-location Data is shared w~r. and for what
p~rpose ;

7. How the Individual can restrict the disdoslr.e

o~

Geo-;ocation data to T hird Part:es: ?tr.d

8. How the l ndiV.d~ai can revoke consent to the Participant's collection and use of Gee-Lo cat io~ Data.
a. Such mechar.;sm shall be easy to use.

FOLLOW US

AWARDS AND PRESS

Aboul: Us

I Contact Us I Partner P~ogram I Careers I Site Map

Privacy PotiCJ'

I rerms of Service I Terms of Use

C TRUSTe l!'lternet Privacy and Security for Businesses

loading

12 of 12

