132 3219
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS:

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman
Julie Brill
Maureen K. Ohlhausen
Joshua D. Wright
Terrell McSweeny

___________________________________
)
)
)
TRUE ULTIMATE STANDARDS
)
EVERYWHERE, INC., a corporation,
)
d/b/a TRUSTe, Inc.
)
)
____________________________________)
In the Matter of

DECISION AND ORDER
DOCKET NO. C-4512

DECISION AND ORDER
The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission” or “FTC”), having initiated an
investigation of certain acts and practices of the Respondent named in the caption hereof, and the
Respondent having been furnished thereafter with a copy of a draft of complaint that the Bureau
of Consumer Protection proposed to present to the Commission for its consideration and which,
if issued by the Commission, would charge Respondent with violations of the Federal Trade
Commission Act (“FTC Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq.;
The Respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed
an Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), which includes: a statement
by Respondent that it neither admits nor denies any of the allegations in the draft complaint,
except as specifically stated in the Consent Agreement, and, only for purposes of this action,
admits the facts necessary to establish jurisdiction; and waivers and other provisions as required
by the Commission’s Rules; and
The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it
had reason to believe that the Respondent has violated the FTC Act, and that a complaint should
issue stating its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent
Agreement and placed such agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days for
the receipt and consideration of public comments, and having duly considered the comments
filed by interested persons, now in further conformity with the procedure prescribed in
Commission Rule 2.34, 16 C.F.R. § 2.34, the Commission hereby issues its Complaint, makes
the following jurisdictional findings, and enters the following Order:
1

1. Respondent True Ultimate Standards Everywhere, Inc., also doing business as TRUSTe,
Inc., is a privately-owned, Delaware corporation with its principal office or place of
business at 835 Market Street, Suite 800, San Francisco, California 94103.
2. The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this proceeding
and of the Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest.
ORDER
DEFINITIONS
For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:
1. “Seal” shall mean any trustmark, logo, seal of approval, emblem, shield, or other insignia
Respondent has offered or provided for placement on a company’s website, including,
but not limited to TRUSTed Websites, COPPA/Children’s Privacy, EU Safe Harbor,
TRUSTed Cloud, TRUSTed Apps, and TRUSTed Data.
2. Unless otherwise specified, “Respondent” shall mean True Ultimate Standards
Everywhere, Inc., and its successors and assigns.
3. “Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 44.
4. “COPPA” shall mean the Federal Trade Commission’s Children’s Online Privacy
Protection Rule, 16 C.F.R. Part 312.
5. “COPPA safe harbor program” shall mean any self-regulatory program [guidelines]
established pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 312.11 of the Federal Trade Commission’s Children’s
Online Privacy Protection Rule and operated by Respondent.
I.
IT IS ORDERED that Respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary,
division, or other device, including franchisees, or licensees, in connection with the advertising,
promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of seals or certifications, or any other
substantially similar product, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent, in any manner,
expressly or by implication:
A. The steps it takes to evaluate, certify, review, or recertify a company’s privacy practices;
B. The frequency with which Respondent conducts any such evaluation, certification,
review, or recertification of a company’s privacy practices;
C. The corporate status of Respondent and its independence; and
2

D. The extent to which the person or entity is a member of, adheres to, complies with, is
certified by, is endorsed by, or otherwise participates in any privacy program sponsored
by Respondent.
II.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, directly or through any corporation,
subsidiary, division, or other device, including franchisees, or licensees, shall not provide to any
person or entity the means and instrumentalities with which to make directly or by implication
any misrepresentation prohibited by Part I of this order. For purposes of this Part, “means and
instrumentalities” shall mean any information, including but not necessarily limited to, any
required or model language, for use in any privacy policy or statement for display on a website
or mobile application covered by any seal or certification provided by Respondent, or any other
product or service covered under this order, in or affecting commerce.
III.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent for ten (10) years after the date of
service of this order, as part of its annual report required to be submitted pursuant to 16 C.F.R.
§312.11(d)(1) of the COPPA Rule, shall, in a sworn statement provide:
A. The total number of new seals awarded to participants in any COPPA safe harbor
program in the preceding reporting period;
B. A detailed explanation of the mechanisms used by Respondent to assess the fitness of
new applicants to any COPPA safe harbor program for membership in the program;
C. A detailed explanation of the mechanisms used by Respondent to assess the continuing
fitness of an existing participant in any COPPA safe harbor program for membership in
the program; and
D. Any additional steps Respondent undertook to comply with the requirements of
16 C.F.R. § 312.
Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all statements required by this
Part shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director of
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania
Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the Matter of TRUSTe, Inc., FTC
File No. 1323219. Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by
first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to
the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.

3

IV.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall maintain and upon request make
available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy
of, for a period of ten (10) years from the date of preparation:
A. A detailed explanation of assessments Respondent conducted during the preceding
reporting period to determine the fitness of new applicants to any COPPA safe harbor
program for membership in the program;
B. A detailed explanation, including the frequency, of assessments Respondent conducted
during the preceding reporting period to determine the continuing fitness of an existing
participant in any COPPA safe harbor program for membership in the program;
C. Any documents related to consumer complaints, received in the preceding reporting
period, alleging violations of any COPPA safe harbor program by Respondent or by
participants in any COPPA safe harbor program;
D. Any documents related to records of disciplinary actions taken in the preceding reporting
period against participants in any COPPA safe harbor program; and
E. Any documents related to approvals of COPPA safe harbor program participants’ use of
verifiable parental consent mechanism under 16 C.F.R. § 312.11(d)(1).
V.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that within five (5) days of the date of service of this
order, Respondent shall pay $200,000 to the United States Treasury as disgorgement, as follows:
A. The payment shall be made by wire transfer to the Treasurer of the United States, in
accordance with instructions provided by the Federal Trade Commission.
B. In the event of any default in payment, interest shall accrue, computed pursuant to
28 U.S.C. § 1961, from the date of default to the date of payment.
C. Respondent relinquishes all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid to the fullest
extent permitted by law. Respondent shall make no claim to or demand return of the
funds, directly or indirectly, through counsel or otherwise.
VI.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall maintain and upon request make
available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy
of, for a period of five (5) years from the date of preparation or dissemination, whichever is later,
4

all documents, whether in written or electronic form, that relate to compliance with this order,
including but not limited to:
A. all advertisements and promotional materials containing any representations covered by
this order, with all materials used or relied upon in making or disseminating the
representation;
B. consumer complaints (whether received directly, indirectly, or through any third party)
that relate to Respondent’s activities as alleged in the draft Complaint and Respondent’s
compliance with the provisions of this order; and any responses to such complaints;
C. copies of all subpoenas and other communications with law enforcement entities or
personnel, if such documents bear in any respect on Respondent’s activities as alleged in
the Complaint and Respondent’s compliance with the provisions of this order; and
D. any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of Respondent, that call into question
Respondent’s compliance with this order.
VII.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all
current and future subsidiaries, current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers
having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of this order. Respondent shall deliver this
order to such current subsidiaries and personnel within thirty (30) days after service of this order,
and to such future subsidiaries and personnel within thirty (30) days after the person assumes
such position or responsibilities. For any business entity resulting from any change in structure
set forth in Part VIII, delivery shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of this order, within
thirty (30) days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of the order pursuant to this Part.
VIII.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall notify the Commission at least
thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations
arising under this order, including, but not limited to: a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or
other action that would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this
order; the proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in the corporate name or add ress.
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation(s) about which
Respondent learns fewer than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place,
Respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such
knowledge. Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices
required by this Part shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the
Associate Director of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the matter of
5

True Ultimate Standards Everywhere, Inc., FTC File No. 1323219. Provided, however, that in
lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version
of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.
IX.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent, within one hundred twenty (120) days
after the date of service of this order, shall file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in
writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form of its compliance with this order. Within ten
(10) days of receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, it shall submit an
additional true and accurate written report.
X.
This order will terminate on March 12, 2035, or twenty (20) years from the most recent
date that the United States or the Commission files a complaint (with or without an
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:
A. Any Part in this order that terminates in fewer than twenty (20) years;
B. This order’s application to any Respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and
C. This order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this Part.
Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that Respondent did
not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld
on appeal, then the order as to such Respondent will terminate according to this Part as though
the complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.
By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary
SEAL:
ISSUED: March 12, 2015

6

