Exhibit A

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http:// www. truste.c om/privacy-program-requirements/

Events

Blog

Newsletter

T RUSTe

e
Privacy Program Requirements
Home

Pri Vc:~cy

Program Requfrements

Understanding Program Requirements

TRUSTe Program Requirements
I. Structure
TRUSTed Websites requires compliance with the <ollowing prog'am recu·tremerts. Upon sat1sfacto:y certification
TRUSTe provides companies with a TRUSTe Privacy Seal as evidence o< compliance - certified compan:es must
display this sea! on their website privacy policy page and may elect to place tt:e seal on addi!iona! webpages as we!l.

TRUSTe Products
TRUSTed Websites
For eComrP.erce and content
websites
EU Safe Harbor
Global reach with EU Sa!e Harbor

II. Definitions
The following definit;ons shall apply t:erein:

A. "Behavioral Targeting" is the collection and use of information on an Individual's Online activity over a period of
time for the purpose of developing and using predictive models to determine potential future behavior or

Children's Privacy
For web sites who market to chi'dren
Mobile Privacy
Certify your mobile apps and
websites

interests
B. "Clear and Conspicuous" means a notice that is reasonably easy to find, and easily understandable in terms of
content and style to the average reader.
C. "Expressed Consent" means the affirmative consent (opt-in) to a practice by the Individual, after being provided
notice, but prior to implementing the practice,

TRUSTed Email
Achieve email privacy certification
TRUSTed Ads
Ad privacy compliance just got easier

D. "Foreign Language Privacy Statement" is the Participant's Privacy Statement translated into a language other
than English.
E. "Gee-location Data" is information obtained through an Individual's use of a Mobile Device and is used to
identify or describe the Individual's actual physical location at a given point in time.
F. "Individual" means the discrete person to whom the collected information pertains.
G "Inferred Consent" means consent which is implied by an Individual, regarding the collection, use, disclosure,
distribution of Pll after notice and opportunity to withdraw consent ( opt-out) is given by Participant, but not
taken by the Individual.
H. "Material Change" means degradation in the rights or obligations regarding the collection, use, or disclosure of
Pll for an Individual. This usually includes changes to Participant's:
1

Practices regard ing notice, collection, use, and disclosure of Pll and/or Third Pa rty Personally
Identifiable Information;

2. Practices regard ing user choice and consent to how Pll and/or Third Party Personally Identifiable
Information is used and shared; or
3. Measures for information security, integrity, access, or individual redress
"Mobile Device" is a portable electronic gee-location enabled device which allows the user to process, receive,
and send data without being limited to a specific geographical location.
"Online" is the state where an Individual is connected by computer or Mobile Device to one or more other
compL1ers, Mobile Devices, or networks, as through a commercial electronic information service or the internet.
K. "Participant" means the entity that has entered into an agreement with TRUSTe to participate in the TRUSTe
program(s) and agreed to comply with the program requirements included therein.

L. "Personally Identifiable Information ~PII]" means any information or combination of information that can be used
to :dentify, contact, or locate a discrete Individual.
M. "Primary Purpose" means use of Pll that is reasonably expected by the Individual (i) at tl1e point of collection;
and (ii) including compatible uses in features and services to the Individual that do not materially change
expectations of user control and third party sharing. Such use may be at least those uses described in the
Participant's terms of service governing the Participant's products or services which give rise to the Individual's
!nteraction with the Participant.
N. "Privacy Statement" shall mean the statements of Participant's information collection and usage practices, as
st.:ch pr actices are updated from time to time. Participant's Privacy Statement includes, but is not limited to:
1. A single, comprehensive statement of all the Participant's i!1formation practices ("Comprehensive Privacy

1 of 12

TRUSTed Downloads
Certify your downloads to be safe

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http: Ilwww.truste.com!pri vacy-program-requirements/

Statement");
2. A summary notice tlghlighting the Participant's informa:ion practices ("Short Notice"); or
3. Disclosure of specific ir.format:on practices posted at the point of irJormation coliec!ion ("Just in Time
t-k>tice'').
0 . "Pl.blicly Available Information :PAl)" means any 'rtormat:on reasonably believed to be lawfully made ava~ab'e
to the general puolic from:
1. Federal, state or toea: governr.1ent •ecords;
2. Widely available source(s) haV:ng no additional prohibition around onward trar.sfer or ~se ; or
3. Disclosures to the general pubiic that are required to be made by federal, state or roca: law.
P. Recipient" means t'le Ind ividual who receives an Email Message.

Q . "Retargeting" is a form of behavioral advertising by which o~lir;e advertising is delivered to an Individual based
upon the Individual's previous online actions.

R. "Search Engine" is a publicly facing service that conects and organizes content from across the internet for the
primary purpose of responding to a search request. Such service may not retain information beyond caching or
ether service enhancing techniques, or use the irlormatfon to create a persistent profile of the Individual for
purposes other than enhancing search techniques.
S. "Secondary Ptrpose" is the use of Pll in a way that is not reasonably expected by the Individual relative to the
transactions or ongoing services provided to the Individual by Participant or the Participant's Service Provider.
Such p trpose may or rr.ay not be described by Participant's tenns of service governing Participant's products
or services which give rise to the Individual's interaction w ith t he Participant

T. "Service Pr ovider" is anyone other than the Participant or the Individual that performs, or assists in the
performance of, a function or activity which may involve the use or disclosure of Pll or Third Party Pll. Such use
must only be on behalf of Participant or Individual and only for the purpose of performing or assisting in that
specific function or activity as agreed to by the Participant and Individual.
U. "Social Network" is an online service that offers the following features:
1. A platform that enables the interaction between two or more Individuals for the purpose of creating
social or business relationships, and sharing of information;
2. Functionality that enables Individuals to create a profile that Includes information of their own choosing
such as photos, and links to personal pages of other connected Individuals (e.g. friends, business
contacts):
3. Mechanisms to communicate w ith other Individuals such as instant messenger, email, or posting to a
p rofile or newsfeed; and
4. Search functional ~y that enables Individuals t o search for other Individuals that is based ~on that
Individual's preferences.

V. "Third Party(le s)" ts an entity (ies) o ther than the Participant or the Individual which is not directly affiliated with
the Partic ipant; and, if aff~iated w it h the Participant, where such affiliation Is not r easonably known t o the
Individual.
W

'T hird Party Personally Identifiable Information [Third Party Pll]" means Pll t hat is collected by Participant from
an entity other than t he Individual

lit. Minimum Program Requirements
A. All Participants wanting to be certified that their Online information collection and use practices compiy with

TRUSTe's Privacy Program Requ'rements must comply with the foi owing requirements:
B. PartiCipant

Accountab~ity

1 . Participant shall have processes in place to comply with these Program Requirements
2. Qooperation with TRUSTe
a. Provide, at no charge to TRUSTe or its r epresentatives, fl~l access to the Online properties (i.e.,
ir.cluding password access to premium or members on:y areas) for the ptrpose of conducting
reviews to ensure that Participant's Privacy Statement(s) is consistent w ith actual practices.
b. Provide, upor. TRUSTe's reasonable request. information regarding how PII gathered from andlor
tracked through Partic ipant's O~line properties is used.

2 of12

http: Ilwww. truste. com/privacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

3. Ann :.:aI Reclillili_!;.<!.ti.o.D
a. Partic;pant shall t:ndergo re-certification to veri~ ongoing compliance with t'lese Program
Requi~emer~ts

ar.nua::y.

4. Termination for Material Breach
a. In the evert TRUSTe reasonab:'y believes !he Participant !-.as rr.aterially breact:ed these Program
Requiremerots). TRUSTe rP.ay terminat e the Participant's participation in tflis program upon twenty
(20) business days' prior writter notice ("Notice of Termir.a!lQn") :~rress the breach is correc!ed
w~hin

the same twenty (20) btJSiness day period

("C:~re

Period").

b. Materia~ breaches of these Progra~ Req~irements inci:Jde b:i. are not limited to:
1 . Participant's conti.,ual. in!er~t:onal. and material failure to adhere to these Program
Requirements;
2. Participant's material faii:Jre to perm~ or cooperate with a TRUSTe !nvestigation or rev!ew
of Participant's Online properties or practices pursuant to the Program Requirer1ents;
3. Participant's continou-ai, ir.tentiona:, and r:1aterial fai!ure to comply with any Suspension
Obligat:ons;
4 . Participant's material failu'e to cooperate with TRUSTe regarding an avd~. complaint or the
compliance monitoring activities of TRUSTe; or
5. Any deceptive trade practices by the Participant

5. Suspension Status
a. In the event TRUSTe reasonably believes that Participant has materially violated these Program
Requirements, Participant may be placed on suspension.
1. Notice will be provided with a mutually agreed upon description of the violation and any
remedial actions that TRUSTe will require Participant to take during the Suspension Period
("Su~ension

0 bliqations").

2. Participant will be considered to be on Suspension immediately upon receiving notice from
TRUSTe. Suspension shall last until such time as the Participant has corrected the material
breach or Program Requirements violation to TRUSTe's satisfaction, but not for a period of
greater than six (6) months ("Suspension Period") LJ'lless mutually agreed by the Parties.
3. Suspension Obligations may include, but are not limited to:
a. Compliance wrth additional Program Requirements;
b. Cooperation with heightened compliance monitoring by TRUSTe: and
c. Payment to TRUSTe of mutually agreed additional amol.f'lts as compensation for
TRUSTe's additional compliance momorinq_
d. Participant shall comply w ithal! Suspension Obligations.
4. D\.l'inq the Suspension Period, Participant's status may be indicated via a TRUSTe
Validation webpage or TRUSTe may require Participant to cease using the TRUSTe
trustmarks.
5. At the end of the Suspension Period. TRUSTe will, In its discretion. either:
a. Determine that Participant has complied with Participant's Suspension Obligations,
thereby satisfying TRUSTe's concerns;
b. Extend the Suspension Period by mutual agreement with the Participant; or
c. Determine that Participant has failed to comply with Participant's Suspension
Obligations and immediately terminate Participant for cause.

C. Privacy Practices

The following requirements apply if the Participant collects PII :
1. Col:ection Limitation
a. Participant shall only collect Pll where sue~ collection :S:
1. Limited to infocmation reasonably usefu! for the purpose for which it was coliected and in
accordance wi:h tr.e Participant's Privacy Statement in effect at tr.e time of collection; or
2. With notice to and consent of the Individual

2.~

3 ofl2

http: Ilwww. truste. corn!pri vacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

a. Participant shall use Pll in the provision of those services advertised or provided for, and in
accordance with their posted Privacy Stateme!'l! in effect at the t!~ of collection, or wit'1 notice
and consent as described in !hese Progra'Tl Reqlirements.
b. l ntormatio!'! collected by the Participant or the Participant's Sel"i.ce Provider may be LtSed to taler
the l ndivic!l;al's experience o~ the Participant's Onlire property.

3. Choice
a. Particioant shaDoffer the Individual centro: ove~ their collected Persona::y ldentif~abie Information
as ror nws·
' . Participant must pr ovide the l ndividua: an opport~nity to withdraw conse~t to having PII
used by the Participant for a Secondary

P~rpose .

2. Participant rr.ust provide tre lndivid~a : a Just in Time Notice and the opportunity to
withdraw consent to hav'ng Pll disclosed or distributed to

Thi~d

Parties, other

t~an

Service

Providers. at the time PII is collected;
3. Participant shal: honor and maintain the Individual's choice se!ection In a persistent manner
until such time the Individual

cha~es

u·.at choice se:ectlon; and

4. Participant shall provide a means by which the Individual may change their choice seleclio!'l.
b. Consent is not necessary where the use, disclosure or distribution of Pll is required by iaw, court
order, o r other valid legal process.
c. Express Consent roost be obtained from the Individual prior to the transfer o f Pll to Third Parties
other than Service Providers if an ~.muthorized use or disclosure or that information wo\Jd be
likely to cause financial, physical, or reputational harm to an Individual.
d. Privacy Statement shall state when the Individual can exercise control over the use and sharing of
their Pll and how to exercise that control
e. Such mechanism shall be easy to use and offered at no cost to the Individual
4. Collection and Use of Third Party PII
a. Participant shall use Third Party PII collected solely to facilitate the one-time completion of the
transaction that is the Primary Purpose for which the information was collected by the Participant
except as allowed in Section III.C.4.d regarding Search Services.
b. Participant must obtain Express Consent from the Individual to whom such Third Party Pll pertains
before such Third Party Pll may be used, disclosed, or distributed by the Participant for any
purpose other than the Primary Ptxpose for which such information was collected by the
Participant, except as allowed in Section III .C.4.d regarding Search Services.
1 Participant may use Third Party Pll to send a one-time email message to the Individual to
solicit their Express Consent.
c. Regarding Thir d Party Pll t he Privacy Statement shall state:
1. The types of the entity{ies) collecting Third Party PI I;
2 What kind of Third Party Pll is collected, either through active or passive means;
3. 1-bw collected Third Party Pll is used al"dlor disclosed;
4. What types of additional Third Parties if any, including Service Providers, collected Third
Party PII is shared with.
d. Search Services

4 of 12

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http://www. truste. com/privacy-program-requirements/

1 . A search Engine may provide search results cort.aining T tird Party Pll ,

w~hout

the nctice

and choice req:.Jire ments noted above, providing:
a. The results w ere obta'ned from public or pub!!shed sources or. the internet;
b. The information is not used to create a persister.! proti:S of the Individual outside the
scope of enhancing Search Engine techn!ques;
c. Participan! shal! have a mechar.ism for the Individual to request removal from
displayed search results if the disp:ay

o~

such res;Jtts will:

I Cause pnysica ~ harm to the lndMduai; or
Interfere w ith the safeguarding of irnoortant cour.te~iling p ublic interests,
inc:uding national security, defer.se,
d. Privacy stater.1er.t shaii state 'low

o~

public

l ndivid~al

can

secu~ ity.

req~est

removal from displayed

searc~ results.

2 . A Participant that compiles informatior. abol..t Individuals, who are :1either custot:"IE!rs of or
registered users o f, that Participant's services: and ! hen set;s access to tt·at inforonation to
Third Parties may provide search res~.;~ts containing Third Pa'iy PI! without the notice and
cr.oice req:.:irements noted above. providing:
a. Information obtai~ed about t he Individual is from public or published sources which
have no prohibition around onward transfer or use associated ·with the information;
b. The Participant shall provide the lndlvldt;al a mechanism to stop haVing their
information displayed in search

resu~s:

I Such mechanism shall be easily accessible to the Individual; and
Privacy Statement shan state how the Individual can stop having their
information displayed in search results.
c. T his does not include srtuations where Participant disclosed Third Party PII back to
an entity that has rights to such Information.

5. Access
a. Participant mJSt implement reasonable and appropriate mechanisms to allow the Individual to
correct or l4)date inaccurate PI I.
b. Participant mJSt implement reasonable mechanisms to allow the Individual to request deletion of
Pll or that collected PII no longer be used.
c. Such mecha nism should be consistent with how the Individual normally interacts or communicates
with the Participant
d. S uch mechanism or process shall be clear. conspicuous, and easy to use
e. Such mechanism or process shall confirm to the Individual inaccuracies have been corrected; and
f. Participant's privacy statement shall state how access is provided.
g. Participant is not re quired to permit Individual access to Pe rsonally Identifiable Information to the
extent that:
1. Such access would prejudice the confidentiality necessary to comply with regulatory
requirements, or breach Participant's confidential information or the confidential information
of others;
2. The burden or cost of providing access would be ciisproporl!onate or the legitimate rights or
interests of others would be violated. However, Participant may not deny access on the
basis of cost i~ the Individual offers t o pay the costs of access: or
3. The requested Pll is derived from pubi:C records or :s Publicly Available Information and is
not combined with non-public record or non- publicly available information.
h. If Participant denies access to Pll, Participant must orovide the Individual with an explanation of
why a::cess was de nied and contact information ~or further inquiries regarding the denial of
access.
6. P~ol"!'lOtiona! a r.d Newsletter Email CommlSlications
a. AR rteWsletters and promotional email messages that Participant sends to the Individual must
include Participant's postal address and a functional unsubscribe mechanism.
b. The location and instructions concerning the unsubscribe mechanism must be Clear and

5 of l 2

http://www.truste.com/privacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

Conspicuous, and the rTlE!CI'.an:Sm itself
follcwi~

~ust

be functio~i for no fewer l.,an t hirty (30) days

the sending of the r.ewsletter or promotio;al ema" message.

c. Participant must hono~ the lndividuars request to urrsubscribe from a r.ewsiette ~ or promotional
e:naii message beginning or. the tenth(~ 0) b~,;5iness day after the Participam receives the
unsubscribe request, ~nless the Individual subsequentiy requests to re ceive newsletters or
pro:notiona~

emai' messages fro:n Partic'pant.

d. An U"IS~scribe mecr.anism is r.ot reqt.ired for admi:"!istrative or customer service-related email
messages (e.g. acco:.:nt management or provisioning of requested services, warranty or recall
informat'o'l, safety or security annour.cements).

7. Pt>biic Disclos~
a A Participant may allow a user to post PII in an o~line forum, chat ro om, blog or other public
forum, where t~e Pll being displayed was placed there by a user who is also t~e Individual.
~.

If appropriate ar.d commercial'y reasonable, provide a process or mechanism to aliow the
lndivid:;al to request timely removal of any publicly displayed Pll where it r.as been lega'iy
and rightfuiiy shared; ar.d

2. State in tile Privacy Statement how the Individual can request removal of p ublicly displayed
Pll.
b. The Privacy Statement shall state information posted by Individuals in online forums, chat rooms,
blogs, or other public forum may be displayed publicly.
c. The Privacy Statement shall accurately describe the extent to w hich an Individual's displayed Pll is
publicly available.
d. If Participant provides a publicly accessible online directory or similar service, the Participant shall:

1. Provide the Individual a reasonable and appropr iate mechanism to request removal of their
Pll from the directory;
2 . Ensure the mechanism is consistent with how the lndMdual nor mally interacts or

communicates with the Participant
3. State in the Privacy Statement how the l ndMdual can request removal; and
4. Such mechanism to request removal of a listing where access to the online directory or

similar service is limited to other registered Individuals may be contingent on the Individual
no longer using that service.

8. Material Changes
a Participant must notify Individuals of any Material Changes to its Pll collection, use, or disclosure
practices prior to making the change.

b. Participant must obtain prior approval from TRUSTe
1. For any Material Change in its Pll collection, use, or disclosure practices; and

2. For method and notice to Individuals, such as ema~. "in product" messaging, etc.

D. Privacy Statement
1. Participant shall maintain and abide by an accurate up-to-date Privacy Statement appro ved by TRUSTe

in its sole discretion that states Participant's information practices and is in conformance with these
Program Requiremer:ts including, but not l:mited to:
a. What informat:on is collected, either thro~ogh active or passive means, type of entity(ies), excluding
Service Providers, coliecting the information, and how the collected information is used:
b. Vvt.at types of Third Parties if any, incl uding SerV.ce Prov!clers, collected information is shared
with:
c. \Nhether Pil ls apper:ded with informat:on obtained f rom third party sources;
d. How and when the lr.dlvidual can exercise choice as required in these Program Requirements;
e. How the l ndiv:dual car~ request access to their information as required in these Program
Requirements;
f. \Nhat types of security measures are h ptace to pro tect collected information as requ red in these
Program Requir ements;
g. What tracking technolcgies are used by the Participant or Thir d Part:es including Service
ProV:ders and the purpose for using those technologies;

6 of12

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http://www. truste.com/privacy-program-requirements/

h. How the l ndividua! can contact the Participant. 'nciudir.g company name, email address or a link to
an cnline form, and physical address;

How the lndividuai wii! be notified of any Material Changes in the Participant's privacy practices;
j. That co'lected informatio:'1 is slbject to disclost.:re plJ'suant lo judicial or other goverrrnent
S:Jbpoe!"as, warran!s. orders. or if the Par!icipar:t <ne~gers w :th or is acqlirec by a Thrd Party, or
goes bankn.:pt;
k.

E~ective

date of Privacy Statement;

if reqU:red, statement or participation if' the T RUSTe program and define participation scooe; and
m. Information on how to contact TRUSTe to express cor.cerns regarding Participant's Privacy
Staterr:e~t

or privacy practices.

2. At a minim~m. Participant shall link to a Comprehensive Privacy Statement !nat discloses the
Participant's information practices.
3. Access to the Privacy Statement shall be Clear ar.d Conspicuous.
~-

As commercially reasonable, Privacy statement must be available when the Individual engages w ith the
Participar.t, st.:eh as through an app!ication. Web site honnepage or landing page.

5. Privacy statement must be available at the point where the Individual provides Pll, or through a common
footer.
6. Participant shall treat all coRected information in accordance w ith the posted Privacy Statement in effect
at the time of collection urless the Individual otherwise has given Express Consent.
7. Short Notice
a. If Participant chooses. they may provide a Short Notice highlighting their information practices
including but not limited to:
1. Summarize what information is collected by the Participant and how the Participant collects
that information, either through active or passive means:
2. Summarize how Participant uses collected information;
3. Whether Participant shares PII with third parties, excluding Service Providers;
4. How the Individual can exercise choice and request access pursuant to these Program
Requirements; and
5. How to contact the Participant including company name, email address or link to online
form. and postal address
b. Access to the Short Notice shall be Clear and Conspicuous.
c. Short Notice shall link to Comprehensive Pr ivacy Statement.
1 . Access to the Comprehensive Privacy Statement shall be Clear and Conspicuous.
d. Any Short Notice shall be consistent with Comprehensive Privacy Statemert.
8. Just in lime Notice
a. If Participant c hooses to provide Just in lime Notice, the Just in lime Notice shall be consistent
with Comprehensive Privacy statement.
9. Foreign Language Privacy Statement.
a. If Participant seeks TRUSTe certification of a Privacy Statement in a language other than English,
TRUSTe shall use commerciany reasonable efforts to verify that Particioant's Foreign Language
Privacy Statement is an accurate trans:ation of Participant's English lar.guage Privacy Statement.
b. Participant st-all ensure that its privacy practices are the same, and that the Foreign Language
Privacy Statement provides materially the same descript ior~ o'f Participant's privacy practices as
Participant's Engish Language Privacy Stateme!'lt.
c. Participant must notify TRUSTe of any M aterial Changes to its Foreign Language Privacy
Stater.1ent and submit chaflges to TRUSTe for review and approval.

E. Data G overnance
1. Partie;pant shall implement controls and processes to manage and protect Pll witnin its controi including
the one s listed in t his Section Ill. E.
a. Such controls arxi processes shall be
1. Appropriate to the size of the Participant's business; and

7 of12

http://www. truste. com/privacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

2. Appropriate to the level of sens~ivity of the data col:ected and stored

2 . Data Secu_it¥
a. Participant must impler.1ent comMerciaily reasonable procedures to protect Pll with!n its control
from unat.thorized access, ;JSe, allerat!on, d isc~osLKe, or dis!ribution.
b. Participant sha~ maintair. and audit internal information tecmo:ogy systems w~h'n Partcipant's
control such as:

1. Regularly

rr.on~or

and repair systems inc!;;ding servers and desktops for know:-1

v~lnerabilities;

2. Ll~it access and use of Pll, or Third Party Pll, to personnel with a legitimate business
need where inapprop~:ate access , use, or disclosure of such Pll , or Third Party Pll, couid
cause financial, physical, or reputational harm tc the Individual;
3. Implement protectio1 against ohishing, spa'l1, viruses, data !oss, and malware; and
4. Use reasonable encryption methods for trarsmission of Information across wireless
networks. and storage of information if !he inappropriate use or disclosure of that
infomnation could cause financial, physical, or reputational harm to an individua:
c. Participant shali utilize encryption

sue~

as Secure Socket Layer for the transmission of information

if the inappropriate use or disdosLKe of that information could cause financia<, physical, or
reputational harm to an individual.
d. Access to Pll or Third Party Pll retained by Participant must be at least restricted by username
and password if t he inappropr iate use or disclosure of that information could cause financial,
physical. or reputational harm to an individual.
e. P rivacy Statement shall state that security measures are in place to protect collected Pll and/or
Third Party Pll.
3 . Da t~

a. Participant shall take commercially reasonable steps when collecting, creating , maintaining, using,
diSClosing or distributing Pll to assure that the information is sufficiently accurate, complete,
relevant, and timely for the purposes for which such information is to be used .
b. If any information collected by the Participant about an Individual is disputed by that Individual and
is found to be inaccLKate, incomplete, or cannot be verified. Participant shall promptly delete or
modify that item of information, as appropriate, based

on the resu~s of the investigation.

4. Data Retention
a. If a Participant receives and retains Pll or Third Party Pll, the Participant must ~mit tts retention to
no longer than commercially useful to carry out its business pLKpose, or legally required; and must
disclose in their Privacy Statement how long they w ill retain that information.
b. Regardless of the time period of retention, so long as a Participant has Pll or Third Party PII in its
possession or control, the requirements included herein shall apply to such information.
5. Service Providers
a. Participant must take commercially reasonable steps to ensure that rt's Service Providers with
whom it shares Pll either:
~.

Abide by Participant's privacy pol:cies as reflected in Participant's P~ivacy Statement; or

2. Abide by privacy policies that are substantially equivalent to Participant's privacy policies as
reflected i~ Participant's Privacy Statement; and
3. Abide by the r'ghts and obligatiors attached to the Pll by the Participant regarding the
secur~y. confidentiality, 'ntegrity, use, and d:sclosure of the Pll.

6. User Complaints and Feedback
a. Participant shall provide users with reasonable, appropriate, simple and effective means to submit
complaints, express concerns, or p~ovide feedback regarding Participant's privacy p~actices.
b. Particip ant shall also cooperate with TRUSTe's efforts to investigate and resolve non-frivolous
privacy complaints, questio:'lS and concer ns raised either by:
~.

User s t hrough TRUSTe's d isp~e resolution process; or

2. TRUSTe .

7. Data Breach

8ofl2

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http: //www. truste. cornlpri vacy-program-requi rements/

a. Participant must notify an Individual of a data breach w ithin 45-days of a known breach as
required by law or if the unauthorized disclosure of Pll can cause financial, physical, or
reputat:onal harm to the Individual urJess otherwise required by law.
b. Url~ss othelwise reqli~ed by law, notice to t!1e Individual must c:sclose t he foilowing:
1. That a breach occurred;
2. What type of Information was breached;
3. When the breach happened;
4. What steps lr:dividuais can take to protect t hemselves;
5. What the actiors the Participar.t is taking regarding the oreach (e.g. ir.vestigat'o'1); and
6. What steps tt:e Par.icipant 's taking to ensure the event does r,o t happen aga'n.
c . Participant must notify TRUSTe when ~ believes a data breach occurred. Participar.t must provide
TRUSTe a copy of the notce to be sent or sent to affected lndiv!dua!(s).

F. Behavioral Targeting
1. Participar.ts engaging in Behavio~al Targeting or Retargeting shall diSclose the following regarding
Participant's Behavioral Targeting and/or Retargeting Practices in its Privacy Statement
a. If information. collected either through active or passive means. is used by eitrer the Participant
or Third Party(ies) for the purpose of Behavioral Targeting or Retargeting;
b. If Pll collected by the Participant is lirked to information collected through Web usage activity
from sources, e.g. Web sites other than Participant's, for the purpose of Behavioral Targeting or
Retarge ting;
c. Whether PII or Third Party PII is collected by, or shared with, additional Third Parties for the
purposes of Behavioral Targef1ng or Retargeting; and

d . How and when the Individual can exercise choice as required in this Section Ill. F.
2. Participant shall provide instructions or link to a mechanism that enables the Individual to withdraw
consent for the use of their information for the purposes of behavioral advertising.
a. At a minimum, such instructions or link shall be made available in the Participant's Privacy
Statement.
3. Participant engaging in Behavior:al Targeting or Retargeting shall offer choice to the lndivklual as follows:
a. An lndivklual must be provided an opportunity to withdraw consent to having Pll linked to
information collected through web usage activity for the purpose of Behavioral Targeting or
Retargeting;
b. An Individual must be provided an opportunity to w ithdraw consent to having Pll shared with Third
Parties, other than Service Providers, for the purpose of Behavioral Targeting or Retargeting at
the time such Pll is collected; and
c. Express Consent must be obtained prior to sharing Pll w ith Third Parties, other than Service
Providers, for the purposes of Bel".avioral Targeting or Retargeting, ~ the unauthorized use or
disclosure of that information could cause financial, or physical harm to an Individual.

G. Social Networks
1. Partlc:pants that enable users to network with other users of a community need to comply with the

follow:ng:
a. Express Consent with confirmation is required for an Individual to establish a profile.
b. Provide a reasonable and appropriate mechanism to allow the Individual to manage their privacy
settings.

1. MeclhaniSm shoUd be consistent with how the Individual normally interacts

o~

commurj cates w~h the Participant
2. Meclhanism sr.all be clear, conspicl.'Ous, and easy tc use
3. Mechanism shall confirm to Individual that privacy settings have been set; and
4. Privacy Statement shalt state how the Individual can update their privacy settings.
c . Provide a reasonable and appropriate mechanism to allow the Individual reqo.Jest deletion or
deactiva!ion of a profile.

1. Mechanism

9 of 12

sho~ld

be consistent with how the Individual normally interacts or

http://www. trus te.com/privacy-program-requirements/

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

COr'"!mtr.icates with the Participant
2. Mec'larism shal: be clear, conspicuous. and easy to use
3. Mecharism shall confirm to lrdivid;Jal profi'e has bee"l deleted or deactivated; and
4. Privacy Stateme:-t shalt s!ate how :he l'ldivia;Jal can •equest delet:on or deactivation cf
their prof!le
d. ProV:de a reasonable and appropriate mecha:lism to aliow the lndividt;a! to request remova' of an
unauti·.vrized p;ofile.
1. Mechanisr.1 should be consistent with how the lndividua! normaily i ~teracts or
cor.-~mun:cates

with the Participant

2. Mechanism shall be clear, conspicuous, and easy to use
3. Mechanisrr. shall confirm to Individual the unauthorized profile has been rer.10ved; and
4. Privacy Staterr.ent shal! state how the Individual can req:.~est removal of an unauthorized
profile.
e. lndividvals between the ages 13-17 must provide Express COnsent to the co!iection. use,
disclosf..l'e of either:
1 . Pll pertaining to that Individual; or
2. Third Party Pll pertaining to an Individual between the ages of 13- 17.
f. If Participant enables users to import Third Party Pll from another source to their prof~e . the
Participant must do the following:
1. Treat all collected information as if it is Third Party Pll as outlined in Section III.C.4.
a. Conected i nformation cannot be used to create a publishable profile unless the
Participant obtains the Express Consent of the Individual.
2. Provide Clear and Conspicuous notice to the user as to why they are providing a password
or other access to their email account; and

IV. US-EU and US-Swiss Safe Harbor Requirements
A. Participants want to self-certify with the Department of Commerce (DOC) for compliance w ith the U.S.-E.U.
Safe Harbor or Swiss Safe Harbor Frameworks and list TRUSTe as its third party dispute resolution
mechanism must comply with the Mini'num Program Requirements and the following:
1. Participant must provide an Individual with access to Pll within thirty (30) calendar days of request.
a. If Participant does not provide an Individual the requested access within thirty (30) calendar days
of the Individual's request, Participant must provide the Individual with a timeline establishing when
the requested access will be provided.
b. Privacy Statement shall disclose the timeline establishing when the Individual can expect a
response to their request for access.
2. Privacy Statement shall include the following statement: "[Participant] complies with the [E U.][Swiss]
Safe Harbor Framework as set forth by the U.S. Department o f Commerce

regardi~g

the collection, use

and retention of personal information from [the European Union][Switzerland]."
a. The statement must include the following link to the Department of Commerce's Web site:
http://export.gov/safeharbor

V. Additional Email Requirements
A . Participa~ts wanting to be certified for practices around t~ sending of commercia! and promotional email must
comply with the Minimum Program Requirements and the following:
1. Participants rrost ensf..l'e that the following disclosures are accessible from the point of email address
collection except where email address is used only to authenticate an I ndlvidual for purposes of
accessing that lndividuars account information:
a. The nature of commercial or promotional email messages to be sent and the types of ent~ ies that
w ill be providing content;
b. Whether Participant sells, rents or otherwise shares Recipients' email address with Third Parties
other than Service Providers; and
c. If receiving commercial or promotional email messages is a requir!!ment to receive a service, a
disclosure of such requirement.

10 of 12

http: II www. truste.cornlpri vacy-program-requirementsl

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

2. Prior t o sending comme•cial or promotional email messages the Recipien! must be provided the
opportl:nity to w~ hdraw consent to having his/her email address added to a mailing !ist. Commercial or
promotiona~

email messages sent l.I!1Cer this form of consent rr.ust inci:.Jde Clear and Conspicuous

iden!ificat'o~ that

the message is an advertisement or solicitation.

3. If Part'cipant has not co!:ected the

Recipie~t's

emai! address directly, the Participant must perform due

diligence to ensure that Clear a~d Conspicuous notice was provided regarding the use and disciosure of
the Recipient's email address, and that the lnd:V.dual had the

opport~ni!y

to withdraw consent.

B . Particioant Accountabmtv. Pa!"'Jcipa"1t shall er:sure tha! the mail ir:frastructl.I'e used to send emailrr.essages is

well maintained and operated

1. Email address

~st

:r. a responsible manr.e~:

maintenar.ce systems must be e ~ ployed !o reliabiy receive and process bo~.;~ces ar:d

other ~eplies ~rom receiving retworks.

2. The Participant's IP address(es) for outgoing emaii must have valid reverse DNS entries. The IP address
of t~.e host name of the reverse DNS entry must match the I P address of the ser:ding maii server.

3. Partidpant ml:st create and maintain the standard role ema:: accounts abuse@sender.comain and
postmaster@sender.domain for all of its domains that send e!T!ail :r: order to facilitate handling
comp!aints and other issues.

4. Participant must comply with releva:1t internet standards such as the Network Working Group Request
for Comment ("RFC") Nos. 2821 and 2822, which describe how Email Messages m:;st be formatted in
order to be processed properly by receiving networks .

C. TransparencY. Participant shall ensure that email messages are truthful and accurately identify the source of
the message.
1. The domain name or message headers must not be falsified or obscured In any way.

2 . The stbject line and content of every email message must not be false or mis!eadlng.

VI. Mobile Services
A. Participants wanting to be certified for collecting PI! through an application on a Mobile Device or through a
Web site optimized for a Mobile Device must comply

w~h

the Minimum Program Requirements and the

following:
B. Mobae Short Notice

1. Participants will provide enhanced notice outside of the Privacy Statement by linking from a TRUSTe icon
or text lili< to a TRUSTe-hosted Short Notice.
2. The following disclosures will appear within the TRUSTe-hosted Short Notice:
a. Whether gee-location data is collected and how gee-location data is used;
b What types of information is collected and how it is used;
c. Whether Participant shares Pll with Third Parties. including Service Providers:
d. How the Individual can exercise choice and request access pursuant to these Program
Requirements:
e. What tracking technologies are used by the Participant or Third Parties including Service
Providers and the purpose for using those technologies;
f. What security measures are in place to protect collected information as required in these Program
Requirements; and
g. How the Individual ca!'l contact the Participant, including company name, email address or a lili< to
an online form, and physical address.

C . Gee-location Data
1 . Participar.t must obtain Express Consent from the Individual the first time Geo-iocation Data is used by
the Participant to provide services.
2. Participant may provide additional notifications through a Just in Time Notice or a persistent icon. to
remind Individuals that their Gee-location Data is being used by the Participant to provide a service.
3. Participant must obtain Express Consem from the Individual prior to the sharing of Gee-location Data
with Third Parties other than Service ProVIders.
4. Participant must obtain Express Consent from the Individual prior to any use of Gee-location Data for
Secondary Purposes.
D. Privacy Statement shall state:

11 of 12

Understanding TRUSTe's Privacy Requirements

http: II ww w. truste. comlpri vacy-program-requirements/

1. What information is collected from an Individual's Mobile Device;
2. VVhether dormation is shared w ith another application installed on the Individual's Mobile Device;
3. How Geo-location Data is used;
4. If Gee-location Data is used to c:-eate a profi'e about the Individual;
5. How !ong Geo-locat:on Data is retair.ed;
6. What !ype of Third Parties. includng Service ProV:ders is Geo-locatlon Data is shared w~r. and for wr.at
p ~ rpose ;

7. How the Individual can restrict the disclosll!'e o~ Geo-;ocation data to Third Parties; ar.d
8. How tt:e lndiV:dt;ai can revoke consent to the Participant's collection and use of Geo-Locatior: Data.
a. Such mechar.'sm shall be easy !o use.

FOLLOW US

AWARDS AND PRESS

.About Us l Contact Us 1 Partner P~09fS m 1 Car~ers 1 Site Map

PriVacy Polley 1 Terms of SeMce 1 Terms of Use

e TRUST& ltrternet Privacy and Security for Bustnesses

loading

12 of 12

