UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF ARIZONA

Federal Trade Commission,

)
)

Plaintiff,

)
)

)

~

)
LifeLock, Inc.
)
a corporation; Robert J. Maynard, Jr.,
)
individually and as an officer of LifeLock,)
Inc.; and
)
Richard Todd Davis,
)
)
individually and as an officer of
LifeLock, Inc.,
)
)
Defendants.
)

Civil No.
STIPULATED FINAL JUDGMENT AND

ORDER FOR PERMANENT
INJUNCTION AND OTHER
EQUITABLE RELIEF AS TO
DEFENDANT MAYNARD

STIPULATED FINAL JUDGMENT AND ORDER FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION
AND OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF AS TO DEFENDANT MAYNARD
Plaintiff, the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC" or "Commission"), has concurrently
filed its Complaint, which alleges that Defendants LifeLock, Inc. ("LifeLock"), Robert 1.
Maynard, Jr. ("Maynard"), and Richard Todd Davis ("Davis") have engaged in violations of
Section 5 of the FTC Act, 15 V.S.c. § 45. The Commission and Defendant Maynard ("Settling
to
Other

to

without trial or adjudication of
admitting the truth

or

m

Settling Defendant

or liability for, any of the matters alleged in the Complaint. Settling

Defendant has waived service of the Summons and Complaint.

Page 1 of 19

THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED as

follows:
FINDINGS

1.

This Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this case and over Settling

Defendant Maynard.
2.

Venue in this district is proper under 28 U.S.c. § 1391(b) and (c), and 15 U.S.C.

§ 53(b).
3.

The acts and practices of Settling Defendant are in or affecting commerce, as

"commerce" is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 44.
4.

The Complaint states claims upon which relief may be granted against Settling

Defendant under Sections 5 and 13(b) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 45 and 53(b).
5.

Settling Defendant makes no admission to the allegations in the Complaint, other

than the jurisdictional facts.
6.

Settling Defendant waives: (a) all rights to seek appellate review or otherwise

challenge or contest the validity of this Order; (b) any claim he may have against the
Commission, its employees, representatives, or agents that relate to the matter stated herein; (c)
all claims under the Equal Justice Act, 28 U.S.C. § 2412, as amended by Pub. L 104-121, 110

7.

U'-'LUHjll",

acknowledges that he
8.

Defendant has entered into this Order

and without coercion, and he

read the provisions of this Order and is prepared to abide by them.

Entry of this Order is in the public interest.
DEFINITIONS

Page 2 of 19

1.

"Settling Defendant" shall mean Robert 1. Maynard Jr.

2.

"Personal information" shall mean individually identifiable information from or

about an individual consumer including, but not limited to: (a) a first and last name; (b) a home
or other physical address, including street name and name of city or to\vTI: (c) an email address
or other online contact information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen
name, that reveals an individual's email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security
number; (f) credit or debit card information, including card number, expiration date, and/or data
stored on the magnetic strip of a credit or debit card; (g) checking account infomlation, including
the ABA routing number, account number, and/or check number; (h) a driver's license, military,
or state identification number; (i) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held in a
"cookie" or processor serial number, that is combined with other available data that identifies an
individual consumer; or G) any information that is combined with any of (a) through (i) above.

ORDER
I.

PROHIBITED BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

IT IS ORDERED that Settling Defendant and his officers, agents, servants, and
employees and all persons in active concert or participation with them, who receive actual notice
of this Order by personal service or otherwise, whether acting directly or through any sole

or

, are
in connection

sale of any product,

the advertising, distributing, promoting, offering for sale, or
or program designed for the purpose of preventing, mitigating, or

recovering from any form of identity theft as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1028, misrepresenting in
any manner, expressly or by implication:
Page 3 of 19

1.

that such product, service, or program provides complete protection
against all forms of identity theft by making customers' personal
information useless to identity thieves;
that such product, service, or program prevents unauthorized changes to
customers' address information;

3.

that such product, service, or program constantly monitors activity on each
of its customers' consumer reports;

4.

that such product, service, or program ensures that a customer will always
receive a phone call from a potential creditor before a new credit account
is opened in the customer's name;

5.

the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope
of such product, service, or program;

6.

the risk of identity theft to consumers;

7.

whether a particular consumer has become or is likely to become a victim
of identity theft; and/or

8.

the opinions, beliefs, findings, or experiences of an individual or group of
consumers related in any way to any such product, service, or program.

on
for
guarantees of any

B.

products,

personal data, identity theft protection for minors, and
or programs.

misrepresenting in any manner, expressly or by implication, the manner or extent

to which they maintain and protect the privacy, confidentiality, or security of any personal
Page 4 of 19

information collected from or about consumers.

II. INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that any business entity that Settling Defendant controls,
directly or indirectly, which collects, maintains, or stores personal information from or about
consumers, shall, upon operation of this business, establish and implement, and thereafter
maintain, a comprehensive information security program that is designed to protect the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers. Such
program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented in ·writing, shall
contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to the entity's size and
complexity, the nature and scope of the entity's activities, and the sensitivity of the personal
information collected from or about consumers, including:
A.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for

the information security program;
B.

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,

confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the unauthorized
disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information, and
assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks. At a minimum,

not

(1)

including network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and
disposal, and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other

"U<'TP1Ti

tailure;

c.

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the
Page 5 of 19

identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of the
safeguards' key controls, system, and procedures;
D.

the development and use of reasonable steps to retain service providers capable of

appropriately safeguarding personal information received from Settling Defendant and requiring
service providers by contract to implement and maintain appropriate safeguards; and
E.

the evaluation and adjustment of Settling Defendant's information security

program in light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by Subsection C of this
Section, any material changes to Settling Defendant's operations or business arrangements, or
any other circumstances that Settling Defendant knows or has reason to know may have a
material impact on the effectiveness of their information security program.
III.
A.

BIENNIAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that any business entity that Settling Defendant

controls, directly or indirectly, which collects, maintains, or stores personal information from or
about consumers, shall, in connection with their compliance with Section II of this Order, obtain
initial and biennial assessments and reports ("Assessments") from a qualified, objective,
independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards generally accepted in
the profession. The reporting period for the Assessments shall cover: (1) the first one hundred

Each
shall:
1.

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards

implemented and maintained during the reporting period;
2.

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to the business entity's size
Page 6 of 19

and complexity, the nature and scope of the business entity's activities, and the sensitivity of the
personal information collected from or about consumers:
3.

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed

the protections required by Section II of this Order; and
4.

certifY that the business entity's security program is operating with

sufficient effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and
integrity of personal information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting
period.
B.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the

end of the reporting period to which the Assessment applies by a person qualified as a Certified
Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems
Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the
SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or
organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.
C.

Settling Defendant shall provide the initial Assessment within ten (I 0) days after

the Assessment has been prepared. All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by

IV. MONETARY RELIEF
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
A.

Judgment in the amount of $35,000,000.00 is hereby entered jointly and severally

against Settling Defendant, Defendant LifeLock, Inc., and Defendant Richard Todd Davis. Full
Page 7 of 19

payment for the foregoing judgment is suspended subject to the provisions of the Section titled
"Right to Reopen as to Monetary Judgment."
B.

All funds paid to or received by the Commission shall be deposited into a fund

administered by the Commission or its agent to be used for equitable relief, including, but not
limited to, consumer redress and any attendant expenses for the administration of any redress
fund. In the event that direct redress to consumers is wholly or partially impracticable or funds
remain after redress is completed, the Commission may apply any remaining funds for such
equitable relief (including consumer information remedies), as it determines to be reasonably
related to Settling Defendant's practices as alleged in the Complaint. Any funds not used for
such equitable relief will be deposited with the United States Treasury as disgorgement. Settling
Defendant shall have no right to challenge the Commission's choice of remedies under this
Section. Settling Defendant shall have no right to contest the manner of distribution chosen by
the Commission.
C.

Settling Defendant relinquishes all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid

to the fullest extent permitted by law. Settling Defendant shall make no claim to or demand for
return of the funds, directly or indirectly, through counselor otherwise.
D.

Settling Defendant agrees that the facts as alleged in the Complaint filed in this

the

,-"VULL'U00HJU

to

enl:Of(~e

pursuant to this Order, including but not limited to a

yv:,,'1'V),pnT

HV,UUJ"JvJlH.Ui",,,",UUJU

bankruptcy case. Settling Defendant further stipulates and

or

complaint in any

that the facts alleged in the

Complaint establish all elements necessary to sustain an action pursuant to, and that this Order
shall have collateral estoppcl effect for purposes of Section 523(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy
Page 8 of 19

Code, 11 U.S.c. § 523(a)(2)(A)

V. RIGHT TO REOPEN AS TO MONETARY JUDGMENT
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Commission's agreement to this Order is
expressly premised upon the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of Settling Defendant's
swom financial statements and supporting documents submitted to the Commission, which
include material information upon which the Commission relied in negotiating and agreeing to
this Order. If, upon motion by the Commission, this Court finds that Settling Defendant has
failed to disclose any material asset, or materially misstated the value of any asset in the
financial statements and information submitted to the Commission, or has made any other
material misstatement or omission in the financial statements and related documents described
above, then this Order shall be reopened and suspension of the judgment against the Settling
Defendant shall be lifted for the purpose of requiring payment in the full amount of the judgment
($35,000,000) less payments made by Defendant LifeLock, Inc., and Defendant Richard Todd
Davis. Provided, however, that in all other respects this Order shall remain in full force and
effect, unless otherwise ordered by the Court.

VI. COMPLIANCE MONITORING
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of (i) monitoring and investigating

statements

to

Order is

expressly premised:
A.

Within ten (10) days of receipt of written notice from a representative of the

Commission, Settling Defendant shall submit additional written reports, which are true and
accurate and sworn to under penalty of perjury; produce documents for inspection and copying;
Page 9 of 19

appear for deposition; and provide entry during nonnal business hours to any business location
in Settling Defendant's possession or direct or indirect control to inspect the business operation:
B.

In addition, the Commission is authorized to use all other lawful means, including

but not limited to:
1.

obtaining discovery from any person, without further leave of court, using

the procedures prescribed by Fed. R. Civ. P. 30,31,33,34,36,45 and 69;
2.

posing as consumers and suppliers to Settling Defendant, his employees,

or any other entity managed or controlled in whole or in part by Settling Defendant, without the
necessity of identification of prior notice; and
C.

Settling Defendant shall pennit representatives of the Commission to interview

any employer, consultant, independent contractor, representative, agent, or employee who has
agreed to such an interview, relating in any way to any conduct subject to this Order. The person
interviewed may have counsel present.

Provided however, that nothing in this Order shall limit the Commission's lawful use of
compulsory process, pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § § 49, 57b-l, to
obtain any documentary material, tangible things, testimony, or infonnation relevant to unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce (within the meaning of 15 U.S.c.

VII. COMPLIANCE REPORTING
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in order that compliance with the provisions of this
Order

be monitored:
A.

For a period of three (3) years from the date of entry of this Order.
1.

Settling Defendant shall notify the Commission of the following:
Page 10 of 19

a.

Any changes in Settling Defendant's residence, mailing addresses,
and telephone numbers, within ten (10) days of the date of the
change;

b.

Any changes in Settling Defendant's employment status (including
self-employment), and any change in Settling Defendant's
ownership in any business entity, within ten (10) days of the date
of such change. Such notice shall include the name and address of
each business that Settling Defendant is affiliated with, employed
by, creates or forms, or performs services for; a detailed
description of the nature of the business; and a detailed description
of Settling Defendant's duties and responsibilities in connection
with the business or employment; and

c.

Any changes in Settling Defendant's name or use of any aliases or
fictitious names.

2.

Settling Defendant shall notifY the Commission of any changes in

business entity that Settling Defendant directly or indirectly controls, or has ownership interest
in, that may affect compliance obligations under this Order, including but not limited to:

or

acts or

ofa

subject to this Order; or a change

the business name or address, at least thirty (30) days prior

to such change, provided that, with respect to

proposed change in the business entity which

Settling Defendant learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place,
Settling Defendant shall notifY the Commission as soon as practicable after obtaining such
11 of 19

knowledge.

B.

(180) days after

One hundred

thereafter for a period of three (3)

date of entry of this Order and annually

Settling Defendant shall provide a wTitten report to the

FTC, which is true and accurate and sworn to under penalty of perjury, setting forth in detail the
manner and form in which he has complied and is complying with this Order. This report shall
include, but not be limited to:
1.

Settling Defendant's then-current residence address, mailing address, and

telephone numbers;
2.

Settling Defendant's then-current employment status (including self-

employment), including the name, addresses, and telephone numbers of each business that
Settling Defendant is affiliated with, employed by, or performs services for; a detailed
description of the nature of the business; and a detailed description of Settling Defendant's
duties and responsibilities in connection with the business or employment;
3.

A copy of each acknowledgment of receipt of this Order, obtained

pursuant to the Section titled "Distribution of Order;" and
4.

Any other changes required to be reported under Subsection A of this

Section.

fifteen (1

D.

t'\ll'or\ACPC

ofthis Order, Settling Defendant shall,

directed

authorized representatives, send by overnight courier all reports and
notifications required by this Order to the Commission, to the following address:
Associate Director for Enforcement
Page 12 of 19

Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room NJ-2122
Washington, D.C. 20580
RE: FTC v. LifeLock, Inc.
Provided that, in lieu of overnight courier, Settling Defendant may send such reports or

notifications by first-class mail, but only if Settling Defendant contemporaneously send an
electronic version of such report or notification to the Commission at: DEBrief(ipftc.gov.
E.

For purposes of the compliance reporting and monitoring required by this Order,

the Commission is authorized to communicate directly with Settling Defendant.

VIII. RECORD KEEPING PROVISIONS
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Settling Defendant for any business for which he is
the majority owner or directly or indirectly controls, which collects, maintains, or stores personal
information from or about consumers, is hereby restrained and enjoined from failing to create
and retain the following records for the following periods:
A.

For a period of six (6) years from the date of entry of this Order:
1.

Accounting records that reflect the cost of goods or services sold,
revenues generated, and the disbursement of such revenues;

2.

Personnel records accurately reflecting: the name, address, and telephone
number of each person employed in any
including as an independent contractor; that person's job title or position;
the date upon which the person commenced work; and the date and reason
for the person's termination, if applicable;

3.

Customer files containing the names, addresses, phone numbers, dollar
amounts paid, quantity of items or services purchased, and description of

Page 13 of 19

items or services purchased, to the extent such iniormation is obtained in
the ordinary course of business;
4.

Complaints and refund requests (whether received directly, indirectly, or
through any third party) and any responses to those complaints or
requests;

5.

Copies of all sales scripts, training materials, advertisements, or other
marketing materials;

6.

Any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of Settling Defendant,
that contradict, qualify, or call into question Settling Defendant's
compliance with Sections I, II, and III of this Order; and

7.

All records and documents necessary to demonstrate full compliance with
each provision ofthis Order, including but not limited to, copies of
acknowledgments of receipt of this Order required by the Sections titled
"Distribution of Order" and "Acknowledgment of Receipt of Order" and
all reports submitted to the FTC pursuant to the Section titled
"Compliance Reporting;"

B.

to

For a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment

n1'p·1"I(>1'?>

including but not limited to all plans, l'PY\fYMtc

<u'-<.''-"J, rpV1PUJQ

audits, audit trails, policies,

training materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to Settling Defendant's
compliance with the Section titled "Biennial Assessment Requirements."

IX. DISTRIBUTION OF ORDER
Page 14 of 19

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that for a period of three (3) years from the date of entry
of this Order, Settling Defendant shall deliver copies of the Order as directed below:
A.

Settling Defendant as Control Person: For any business that Settling Defendant

controls, directly or indirectly, or in which Settling Defendant has a majority ownership interest,
Settling Defendant must deliver a copy ofthis Order to (1) all principals, offIcers, directors, and
managers of that business; (2) all employees, agents, and representatives of that business who
engage in conduct related to the subject matter of the Order; and (3) any business entity resulting
from any change in structure set forth in Subsection A.2 of the Section titled "Compliance
Reporting." For current personnel, delivery shall be within five (5) days of service of this Order
upon Settling Defendant. For new personnel, delivery shall occur prior to them assuming their
responsibilities. For any business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in
Subsection A.2 of the Section titled "Compliance Reporting," delivery shall be at least ten (10)
days prior to the change in structure.

B.

Settling Defendant as employee or non-control person: For any business where

Settling Defendant is not a controlling person of a business but otherwise engages in conduct
related to the subject matter of this Order, Settling Defendant must deliver a copy of this Order
to all principals and managers of such business before engaging in such conduct.

all

a

Order pursuant to

X. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT OF THIS ORDER
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Settling Defendant, within five (5) business days of
receipt of this Order as entered by the Court, must submit to the Commission a truthful sworn
Page 15 of 19

statement acknowledging receipt of this Order.

XI. COOPERATION WITH COMMISSION COUNSEL
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Settling Defendant shall, in connection with this
action or any subsequent investigation related to or associated with the transaction or the
occurrences that are the subject of the Complaint, cooperate in good faith with the Commission
and appear at such places and times as the Commission shall reasonably request, after written
notice, for interviews, conferences, pretrial discovery, review of documents, and for such other
matters as may be reasonably requested by the Commission. If requested in writing by the
Commission, the Settling Defendant shall appear or cause his officers, employees,
representatives or agents to appear, and provide truthful testimony in any trial, deposition, or
other proceeding related to or associated with the transactions or the occurrences that are the
subject of the Complaint, without the service of a subpoena.

XII. RETENTION OF JURISDICTION
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Court shall retain jurisdiction of this matter for
purposes of construction, modification, and enforcement of this Order.

XIII. COSTS AND ATTORNEYS' FEES
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each party shall bear its own costs and attorneys'

Page 16 of 19

XIV. NOTICE OF ENTRY OF ORDER
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that entry in the docket of this Order by the Clerk of
Court shall constitute notice to Settling Defendant of the tenns and conditions of this Order, and
that Settling Defendant waives all rights to contest in any future proceeding whether Settling
Defendant was properly served with this Order.
The parties hereby stipulate to the entry of the foregoing Order, which shall constitute a
final Order in this action.

IT IS SO ORDERED:

Page 17 of 19

Feb 26 10 12:06p

6023547719

FROM THE DESK OF TAMMY MA

STrpULATED AND AGREED TO BY:

FOR DEFE~f)ANT ROBERT J. MAY],;ARD, JR.:

Robert 1. Maynard, Jr.

David Medine

Wilmer "Hale
Counsel for Robert J. Maynard. Jr.
1875 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
Washington, D.C. 20006
(202) 663-6220
david.medinertpi.vilmerhale.com
jennifer. 0> connoflwwilmerhale.com

18ofJ?

p.18

STIPULATED AND AGREED TO BY:
FOR DEFENDANT ROBERT J. MAYNARD, JR.:

Robert 1. Maynard, Jr.

David Medine
Wilmer Hale
Counsel for Robert 1. Maynard, Jr.
1875 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
Washington, D.C. 20006
(202) 663-6220
david.medine@wilmerhale.com
j ennifer.o' connor@wilmerhale.com

18 of 19

FOR PLAINTIFF FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

Willard K. Tom
General Counsel

Maneesha Mithal
Associate Director
Division of Privacy and Identity Protection

David Lincicum
Burke Kappler
Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
Mail Stop NJ-8122
Washington, DC 20580
(202) 326-3224 (general)
(202) 326-2773 (Lincicum)
(202) 326-3768 (facsimile)

Page 19 of 19

