INDEX OF EXHIBITS
Exhibit 1: LifeLock Advertisement
Exhibit 2: LifeLock Website Page
Exhibit 3: LifeLock Website Page
Exhibit 4: LifeLock Website Page
Exhibit 5: LifeLock New Customer Packet
Exhibit 6: LifeLock Website Page
Exhibit 7: LifeLock Website Page
Exhibit 8: LifeLock Website Page
Exhibit 9: LifeLock Website Page
Exhibit 10: LifeLock Advertisement
Exhibit 11: LifeLock Advertisement
Exhibit 12: LifeLock Client Privacy Policy

EXHIBIT 1

I'm Todd Davis, CEO of LifeLock,
and this really is my social security number. ' I give it just to prove how
safe your identity can be with Life Lock. All of us, no matter how careful ,
can become victims of identity theft. In fact, every three seconds another
identity is stolen.
Do you ever worry about identity theft? If so, it's time you got to know
LifeLock. We work to stop identity theft before it happens We're so
confident, we back our clients with a $1 million guarantee. If for any
reason you fall victim to identity theft, we will spend up to $1 million to
hire the finest professionalstciTepair the damage and restore your
good name: Period.
Security, peace of mind, pt.ote~ti()tr - that's ·what Life Lock
provides, along'Nith thead~~d;b()nii:S of reduced junk mail
.~ndpre-~VPrpvedcre{1jt~ ¢,a~~ ).~tM~. Normally it's just .
$19 a rnQntn:blrt,now:yoo;,cai{ ltylisfreefor30 days.

;,n~~~~~~~~rtvework.d1OC.
H~'S

what LifeLod( offersy'Q.!J: ...... .
. -, ; '

,

':"7: -:;~'

~

. • Pro.ac~ Identity Theft P,:.ot,~~ion ..
• Reduce.d Junk Mail
,";r:·: ..
• Reduced Credit Card Offers
• Free Annual Credit Reports
Ff'OfT1 Ule three ""11 Qf'

~ redit blJrE!8UG

• $1 Million Gua~ntee
Foil details ovallabl on our webSIte

• Comprehensive Programs to

Protect Your Employees

II

FREE TRIAL
Use pl omo cQde

FLY 10

lake advanl3g 0 ' Ih.s

oil",.

UFElOCK.COM ·877 UFELOCK (543-3562)

LifeLock .

UFELOCK.COM1
877 LlFELOCK
(543-3562)

EXHIBIT 2

LifeLock - Identity Theft Prevention - Iden tity TI1eft Protection . . Stop Identity Theft

o LifeLock.

Page I of2

1-800-UfeLock

1110 IdIIntit:y ThaIt ProtoIction .

Welcome

How LifeLock Works

$1 Million Service Guarantee

About Us

Get Started

My name is Todd Davis
My social security number is• •-5462
I'm Todd Davis, CEO of UfeLock, and yes, that's my real social securit y number'. Identity theft is one of the fastest growing crim es in America, victimizing
over 10 million people a year and costing billions of dollars. So why publish my socia l security number? Because I'm absolutely confident Life Lock is
protecting my good name and personal information, just like it will yours. And t ha t is why we back Our se rvice with our $1 Million Service Guarantee. At
ufeLock, We Guarantee Your Good Name. No one else does beca use no one else can .
* Always protect your soc~1 secunty number. Do not share it unless necessary.

Protect Your IdentJty

UfeLock I n The News

A Million Rea$DnS to

CHOOS! UFUOCl

( t:'::j}

w. hfIIp put you In
~."

Guarantee Your Good Name
Identity t heft can happen anywhere to
anyone . In line at the store, online at
home or when you' re buying you r morning
coffee. If your identity is stole n, you can
spend hundreds of hours cleaning up your
credit and struggling t o get back your
good name. That's because stolen
identities are used up to 30 ti mes, with
m ost victims only discovering the theft
after they've been t urned down for a loan
or contacted by a collection agency . You
may already be a victim, many t imes
ove r, and not even know it. But not with
UfeLock.
Life Lock, t he industry leader in proactive
identity theft protection, offers a QrQ.ae.t i!'e
solution to help preven t your identity from
being sto len before it happens . We'll
protect your identity and personal
information for on ly ll.QJl..fllJWJb - and we
9l!Mi!DJ~..Q.YL.sm.Ke.JiD .tQ . t~~QOQJ,!Q.o.
We also offer th e only identity theft clJi1(i
DLO.te'ti!m..llli!!1f<lill available in the
ma rkel, so guarantee you r good name
today and e.nmj)!lQJ!'{·

http://www .l ifclock. com!?opli sting=O

Here is what LifeLock
Offers You
v' Proactiv e Identity The ft
Protect ion

v

Reduce Cred it Card Offers

v

$1 Million Service GUdranlee

v' Only $10 per 1'-1 omh

B!>d out hon

ClickJ:!£fJ! to view Lifelock's new
privacy policy .

~

---

. 888.

LifeLock for Busin ess
C~[[\Jl.rellensiy..eJ'!];>gri!m.s to Protect

your Employees and Customers

New service!
eR econ ' ~

S Star mtir>g

and TrueA adre s s '~ help
you shu t dow n potentia l identity
th reats fast.

'j;!p;&-A6--; W ;o,!!': ' V,;'f"I,'",
[,.~.:". b!;)'~;t<~'1 ?;f"f!;J';~ , '.1.'

WalletLock'M takes the hassle ou t of
a lost or stolen wallet.

CllclU.QJinQ.Q.!.!Lho.\'Y .

7/ 10/2009

EXHIBIT 3

By now you've heard the stories about Individuals whose identities have been stolen by
identity thieves. They're not pretty storiesaIJ ;People working [or hundreds of hours over
many years 10 get their Jives back in order. even innocent individuals ending up in jail.
LifeLock protects against Ihis ever happening 10 you. Guaranteed. Up to $1 million.
LifeLock doesn't just report unauthorized use of your credit information, we prevent it by
working with the lop [our credit bureaus to make sure you're contacted to approve any
credit transaction before it takes place. We also remove your name from pre-approved
credit card offers and junk-mail lists, where identity lheft often gets started.
We're the leaders in proactive identity theft protection as you've probably seen in
coverage in The Wall Street Journal and Chicago Tribune, and on MSNBC. CNN, and
many other national news outlets. We're so sure of our system our CEO confidently
publishes his own Social Security number in aU our ads.
If your credit isn't proactively protected, you're at risk. You simply can't afford to wait
until someone takes your identity, especially when lifeLock can set up a very affordable,
guaranteed system of proactive identity theft prevention in JUS! a few hours. Enroll with
us right away.

•

About Us

..

Contact Us

..

Testimonials

..

Endorsements

Privacy Policy
•

Terms of Use

..

SiteMtm

EXHIBIT 4

Bowling Green State University Takes Stand Against lD Theft

Page I of2

f'LifeLock

Gu8l13flte8 Y!.J.Jr Good Name

Ufelod< for People

Ufelock for Business

Our Guarantee

About Us 1 6iiiblJlllfiiW>CD<

About Lifelock

r ~:::U[JSI Bowling Green State University Takes Stand
rectors

I

I

Testimoolals

I

I>rIvacy Policy

I/

Terms of Use

Endorsements

Press Room

12007 Press Releases

I

I

2006 Press Releases
2005 Press Releases

Against ID Theft
BGSU becomes the first Midwestern University to
provide lifeLock service
(Chandler, AZ, July 10,2006) - Bowling Green State University joins
the University of Oklahoma in proactively deterring thieves by making
the Ufelock Identity Theft Service available for purchase by members
of the campus community. lifelock is the nation's first and only
service that prevents identity theft and backs up its promise with a $1
million guarantee.
labeled -the fastest growing crime in America,· it is predicted that in
the United States alone, 15 million people (or 1 in 20) will have their
identity compromised in 2006 - that's more than a 350 percent
increase from a year ago.
-At a time when many colleges throughout Ohio are very concerned
a!>out the security of personal information, we are looking to Ufelock
as one more option we can give students, parents and staff toward
protecting their personal data,~ said Or. linda Dobb, execotive vice
president at BGSU.

ao

Since January 2005, more than
U.S. universities have reported
breeches In information affecting some 4 million people. mostly
students. The majority of breeches have been a result of hacking,
stolen computers and personal information listed on websites.
~With

the losses suffered by some organizations in the last year-and·a·
half, having Bowling Green State University make our service available
for purchase by their students, faculty, staff and alomni is 11: proactive
step toward preventing crime, • said lifelodc CEO Todd Davis.

Ufelock does the prevention work for a client by maintainlng active
fraud alerts with the three major credit bureaus as well as

ChexSysterrrs. ufetock
name
eliminates Illegal use of private informatloo.

"ufelock is the only service of its kind that doesn't wait for a problem
to occur to protect credit data,~ said Bruce Petryshak. chief information
officer at BGSU. "It's a pro-active approach in<fividuals can take to
avoid the potential probfems associated with identity thelt.•
Anyone associated with Bowling Green State University can go to

http://www.lifelock..comlabout-usipress-rooml2006-press-refeaseslbowJing-greeJ1-state-university

5/1512007

Bowling Green Stale University Takes Stand

ID Theft

Page 2 of2

www.bgsu.edu and use the promotIon code bgsu-student to receive a
special discount.
Compared to other products on the market, UfeLock is unique in that it
also removes clients from soliCItatIon liSts, eliminating a primary target
of ID thieves - the pre -approved credit offer. UfeLock also reduces the
amount of junk mail a client would receive and guarantees its service
with $1 million to cover all expenses if anything was to ever happen to
one of it.s clients. It costs the consumer about $120 annually.
~When you are talking about identity theft, true protection can only
come when you concentrdte on stopping the Clime in the first place, ~
added Davis.

Ufelock, which is based in Chandler, Arizona, is the first company to
provide an identity theft program for children 16 and under, and ID
theft protection for Hurricane Katrina Victims. For more information on
Ufelodc, log on to !V.n:ti,1ifd2.ck.mm.

~$

CIl!'llolllJ.1;

J~~l!n!!'ljal$

~!"!!I!!;x

t.~

kl'!1lUtJ.ls!:

~L.~

~

http://www.lifelock.comlahou!-uslpress-rooml2006-press-releaseslbow ling-green-state_uniyersity

511512007

EXHIBIT 5

o LifeLock
Take control

«firs\name» «fastnamelJ
«address 1 )}
«city», «stare» {{zip»
Dear «firslname» «/astname»,
Congratulations on enrolling with Lifelock and taking a proactive stance against
identity theft. You are now guaranteed protection against the fastest growing
crime in America . Our records indicate you are the primary contact for the
«family», and that you enrolled on «date_created». You have elected the
following payment option: «product)), which includes a recurring payment of
$«amount». This amount will be automatically charged to your credit card each
month or year, depending on your payment option.
Please take a moment to review the documents we have attached to better
understand the services that we provide.
Again. thank you (or your business.

Most sincerely,

Todd Davis
Chief Executive Officer
life Lock. Inc.

6515 S RUf'" Rd

S,,~e

1()4 Tempe , A] 8983·877-543-)562. 46().682·5101 ra"

()LifeLock
Take control

Thank you for enrolling with Lifelock. Please know that we are the first company
to prevent identity theft from occurring. We are so sure of our system that we
back it up with a $1 million guarantee.
What We Do
•
•
•
•
•
•

GUARANTEE what we do
Add fraud alerts to your credit reports so that only you can use them
Stop pre-approved credit card offers
Drastically reduce the amount of junk mail you receive
Help ensure things go smoothly when you apply for credit
Request your free annual credit reports on your behalf

1. We GUARANTEE that it works:
Our guarantee is simple: If your identity is ever stolen while you are our client.
we will fix the problem. Period. No matter what it takes. No matter what it
costs (up to $1.000,000). We'" replace every dime you lose from the theft and
you will never pay us again. There's no fine print here. If we need lawyers or
investigators, we hire them. We pay the bills. Your only obligation is to tell us
within 30 days of first discovering the theft.
In order for our guarantee to apply, you must be, and have continuously been,
a client of lifelock when your identity is stolen and when you report it to us.
There is NO guarantee like this ANYWHERE in the industry.
2. Only you can use your credit:
We place and maintain fraud alerts on your credit reports with an FOUR major
consumer reporting agencies, Equifax, Experian TransUnion and
ChexSystems. ChexSyslems is like a credit bureau specifically targeting
depository accounts.
These alerts request that creditors contact you by phone for verification
before granting credit in your name. These alerts last for 90 days, whereupon
we renew them autOmatically. You will receive confirmation of this action in
the mail from each bureau quarterly.

3. We stop pre-approved credit offers:
Our process alerts every company that sends out pre-approved credit offers
to slop sending them to you. This is known as a key area in the prevention of
identity theft .

4. We drasticaUy reduce the amount of junk mail:
We alert the Direct Marketing Association companies that sell individual
names to junk mailers . This drastically reduces the amount of junk mail to
consumers. This is important because all that is needed is an individual's
name and address to steal their identity. The fewer times it is printed, the
better.

5.

We ensure that everything goes smoothly when you want credit:
This support does not mean life Lock will improve the dienfs credit rating but
ralher make sure when they do apply for credit; Lifelock will help expedite Ihe
process. Every lock an individual has, on a car, on a home, on an OffICe,
requires some inconvenience to use. With fraud alerts, the credil-granting
process stops until the company that is using the individual's credit report
verbally contacts the client. This is especially true when an individual is
applying for instant credit, and they may be declined or pul inlo a pending
status. When an individual is a lifelock enent, this process will be facilitated
10 ensure efficiency.
It should be noted, although once a fraud alert is placed we have found.
although obligated, the company issuing credit may not always contact you.
This is one of the reasons why we have the guarantee. Although not
contacted. you are slill protected.

6. You get copies of your credit reports from, Experian, Equifax,
TransUnion and ChexSystems:
It is important Ihat you keep an eye on what the various credit bureaus have
10 say about you. We make sure you get a copy of each of these reports

once annually from all three bureaus so that you can make sure the
information creditors are using 10 judge your credit worthiness is true and
accurate.
It is important to know that these reports are coming directly from the credit
bureaus. Lifelock does not send them 10 you, we initiate the process.

What to Expect After Your Enrollment
Wrlhin the next 3·5 weeks, you will be receiving letters trom Equifax, Experian
and TransUnion explaining they have placed a 90 day fraud alert on your credi1
report in their databases. You will receive Ihese letters every 90 days as lifelock
continues /0 maintain your service.

You will also receive a packet from ChexSystems in the same time period. This
packet will include a statement that a 90 day ale rt has been placed on your
ChexSystems report, a copy of your ChexSystems report, and an affidavit that
you can sign if you would like to place a 5 year extended alert with them. This
affidavit can be discarded unless you have been a victim of identity theft.
Within the next 4-6 weeks you will receive credit reports from each of the three
major credit bureaus. These credit reports will show the alerts stating that anyone
accessing your report must call you prior to making any credit decision. YOU
MUST LOOK CAREFULLY TO VERIFY THAT THE PHONE NUMBERS ON THE
REPORTS ARE CORRECT. IF THEY ARE NOT, CONTACT US IMMEDIATELY.
You will continue to receive credit reports on a regular basis from the credit
bureaus.
Finally, over the next few weeks you will begin noticing a dramatic decrease in
the amount of junk mail and pre-approved credit card offers you receive in the
mail.

When you apply for credit
Lifelock will not affect your credit score. With Life Lock , when you apply for credit
the bank must contact you via the primary phone number you've provided us
before making an approval. This will ensure that you are personally notified
before any credit, insurance, or other credit-related transaction can be
concluded.
On rare occasions , especially when you are applying for "instant" credit, the
bank's computer may send the message that your credit has been declined or
that your application has been placed in a pending status while they process our
instructions to contact you direct/yo If this happens, pick up the phone and call us.
We'll get the bank on the phone with you and ensure that you get the credit you
deserve. It's important that you know that we make no attempt to influence the
bank's decision to approve you, we only make sure that they know it is you who
is applying.
Contacting us
If you ever have a question or concem, we're here Monday thru Friday 6:00 AM
until 6:00 PM Mountain Time . Don't hesilate 10 contact us at
client.services@lifelock .com or by cal/ing our toll-free number, 1-877-LlFElOCK
(543-3562).
Sincerely,

Todd Davis
Chief Executive Officer
Lifel ock , Inc.

EXHIBIT 6

de'llll) I lie II

LI e.

elluo"

ltie'It'l) IIICIl

I

,OICCUOU

SlOp

Iclcnlll

1heft-

Page 101 2

f'LifeLock

GUBI<Jntec Your (,.ood Name

UfcLo<:k.for People

Lifelock (or Bus iness

Our Guarantee

About Us 18oi'rollIJUiW>ctK

Lifelock for
People
".....· I>rnt..,.. yourself at>C

your /amity,
quaraoteedl ·

Business
,
(
'

.'P rotect your '~
with OUr' bustnes~ ,

opport ... "'ty

As seen o n : (dick icon to vjcw article)

I?

IW

you've heard the stones about Americans whose identitics have been stolen . They're

111p :/Iwww.lifelocle.com!

5fJ4n007

._ .lilY Then PreventIon

Identity Theft Protection

Stop Identity Theft

Page 2 012

not pretty people worKing fOf hundreds ot hours over many years to get their lives bJCk III
order, kids not gettmg student loans bei:ause someone has already ruined thelf credit,
r
. Ie losing homes because thieves placed mortgages they never knew eXIsted, even
.ent individuals ending up in jat!o
LJfeLocI<. can keep thIS from happening to you aild we 9\lil@!]!.e~ jlld(5~f\lklLtJP 1,2

:iLQQQ.OOQ.
We're the leaders If) a growIng industry. You've seen US If) countless news stories. You've
heard Rush Umbaugh, Paul Harvey, Or. laura, Scan Hannity, Howard Stem, Or. Joy and
others endorse us. lQQ./uitY.tlli'lt!lYC c:1ients.S:QY. CI:!.e~.Q!.!.t. If you've got a reason to
worry about Identity Theft, we're sure that you'lf find life lock is right for you.

~.!.!l

CImIKt.Us

It:iI_JiI!s

1C!!y.><;)L~

ht!p:J/www.lifelock.com/

~OIS

le~.IlLVX

ere~

2J: 11M

5/1412007

EXHIBIT 7

How does LifeLock protect my Identity"

LifcLoek - Stop {dentlly ThclL Guaranteed.

Page I of 3

~LifeLock
GoOO
Guarantee 'foor

LifeLock for People

Narre

Lifel..ock for Business

Our Guarantee

About Us 1 fIil'~11lJI6W><D<

What We 00

i

l

How does UfeLock
protect: my identity?
HOW much does UfeLock

cost?

How does LifeLock protect my identity?

HoW We 00 It

What is a Fraud Alert?
How does UfeLock secure
my per500al information?

HOW can UreLock protect
my kids and family?
HOW Is UreLock different

from a credit monitorin9
system?
can I caocel at any time>
""hoWeAre
'flo is LifeLock?
Who uses UfeLock?
What an! others sayit'9
about UfeLock'

What you can expect when you enroll:

1. Enrollment
..

Welcome to LlfeLock!
You can stop lOOking over your shoulder because we've
got your bade

2. Credit bureaus contacted

e
e

1-2 hours after

enrollln9~

that

On the next business day after enrolling:

Email from us stating that your credit reports have been
ordered

00

your behalf.

3. Your locks are set
A
Every time you apply for new credit or someone

V

tries to do something with your credit:

bttp:flwwwJifelocb;oml1ifelock-for-peopleJwhat-we-dofhow-does-lifelock-protect-my-identity

5/1412007

How does LifeLock protcct my identity" - LifeLock - Stop Idcntity Their. Guaranteed.

Page 2 of]

You should receive il phone call (rom the bank asking If
you are anually the pers()f1 applying for credit in your
""lIle. [f you are, great, if /lot, the tran~action stops.

On the next business day after enrolling:
Email from us stating that we have processed the
request to remove your name from Junk Mail lists.

5. Pre-approved credit offers blocked
A
...

fmilll from us saying that we've asked for you to be
removed from pre-cpproved credit offer lists.

S. Resuits
Within 2 weeks of your enrollment:
letters from the credit bureaus confirming that fraUd
alerts have been set.
Within 6 weeks of your enroliment:
Your credit reports from each of the major bureaus.
Within 2 months of your enrollment:
You should begin seeing a dramatic decrease in Preapproved credit card offers and other Junk mail. Please
note that banks with which you already do business can
contlOue to send you offers, unless you tell them
specifically that you don't want them anymore.

7. 'We do it all again
About every 90 days and every 90 days
thereafter:
Unless you tell us to stop, you will receive emails from
stating that we have requested that your fraud alerts
be re-set.

US

Within 2 weeks after that:
You will receive confirmations from the credit bureaus
that your fraud alerts have been re-set.
Every 12 months:
You will receive new copies of your credit reports from
all credit bureaus.

8. Support
If you ever have a question or need help:
Our highly trained specialists are here (rom 6:00 AM
until 10:00 PM Pacific time seven days a week.

htfp:l!www.Jifelock.comllife/odc-for-people/what-we-<lolhow--does--life.ock-protect-my-identity

5/1412007

EXHIBIT 8

Rusiness Identity Then Prolectioll & Identity Theil Prevention

Pagt:: I 01 I

t'LifeLock

Guarantee YaJf Good Name

UfeLoc!c for People

LifeLocIc for Business

Our Guarantee

About Us 1 t!iliibllllll6LlHtK

Ufel..od< Protection tor:
,..-----:;::-:---.~----

f

Your Employees

I

Your Customers

Associations

Universities
CompanIes wIth an
Identity loss Incident

1

I

I Universities

J

I

I

Web BuSInesses

learn About UfeLoc!c

Ufeloclc rdentity Theft
Protection

About Ufelock

1
I
I

=::~:'~'~J

Universities Can Protect Staff and Students
An identity theft offering can save time and money
More than 300 colleges and universities lost the private infonnatJon of
their students, staff and alumni in 2006. This cost universities
thousands in lost productivity while the individuals spent up to two
years and hundreds of hours deaning up the mess left by identity
thieves.
Students are especially vulnerable to Identity thieves because the,r
personal and financial activities often aren't dosely monitored. UfeLocK
is the only company in the world protecting identities of kids and
students to ensure they can pursue their college and adult lives with an
untarnished name and a dean financial·slate.
lifelock builds only proactive solutions. We work with all major credit
bureaus on an ongoing basis, setting up fraud alerts and constantly
monitoring what's happening with each person's credit. Unlike credit
monitoring servICes that simply report when someone has alreacly used
your credit, Ufelock contacts individuals immediately when anyone
tries to access their credit information, and nothing can happen unless
approval is given. Th.s ensures unauthorized account transactions will
be stopped before fraud can take place.
We also remove names from pre" approved credit card offers and junk
mail lists. Now, who doesn't want less mailbox clutter?
But, best of all, we guarantee our work up to $I mil/ion.
For more inFormatIOn, please contact us at scbools@lifelock,com.

http://wwwlifeloc!c.comllifelock·for·businessJJifelock·prOleclion-for!universities

5/1412007

EXHIBIT 9

LifeLock - Identity Theft Prevention -- Identity Theft Protection - Stop Identity Theft

()LifeLock
n

1 -800-LifeLoc k

In IdoorU:y '!holt ~.

Welcome

How Ufetodc Works

Page I of2

SI Million Service Guarantee

Abou t Us

Get Started

My name is Kim Barnes
and this Is my story.
Whom I rrrst Ie"""'" about a company caned LiteLock tnat protects 'amilies from Identity theft, my husband was skeptical. [ si9ned U5 up anyway, and
forqot about It. A couple of months later, on a family vacation, my husband received a phone can asking if he was applying lor a new credit card. Someone
was tryIng to steal his identity. UlelDd< had stopped the thief cold. We continued on with our vacation lcnowJItQ we were safe.

Here Is what life Lock
Offers You
V' Proactive rdentlty Thelt
Protection

V'Reduce (Jedit

C,,'" Offer<;

v $1 Million ServiCe Guarantee
V' Only $10 per Month

Guarantee Your Good Name
Identity theft can happen anywhere to
anyone. In line at the store, online at
home or when you're buying your moming
coffee. If your identity is stolen, you can
spend hundreds of hours deanlng up your
credit and SlrU991iog to get bad< your
good name. ThaI'S because stolen
identities ..... used up 10 30 times, with
most victIms only disCovering the theft
after they've been turned down lor a loan
or contacted by .. collection agency. You
m<lY already be a victim, many ~mes
over , and not even know It.. But not with
UleLod<.
UleLod<, the industry leader In proactive
identity theft protection, offers a QJlW:f/
that prevents your Identity from
being stolen bet"", it happens. We'"
protect your Identity and personal
information lor only 1J.Jl..4..!nllDtb. • and we
~

guarantee

9ljr~lce UP t!)

Sl.OOQ..Ql!.Q.

we also offer the only Identity Ih<!ft cbiJd
~

~

to Yiew Ufelock's new
privacy poHcy.

life Lock for Business
Cllam!~~ to Protect

your Employees and Customers

New service!
eRecon ~ and TrueAddress - help
you shut down potentlal identity
threats fast. .
-; ;r~ {.,.;" ..... :ru- ~ I(!M' I.,
t."1"ft S.""'r..liQr' pti1<}f¥:1 ......

h.J<l'tft'.",d

•

~l'~ .:.~... fi.U1f'oIp ~~ -J: "'.1

Walletlock- takes ttle hassle out of

a fost or stolen wa'eL
Q!QL1Q find out

how.

ayaHabl.'n the

market. so guarantee your good name
today and cnr.oll !lllrt.

hltp:llwww.lifclock.coml

3/20/2009

EXHIBIT 10

IDENTITY THEFT ALERT:

Special Report: Threat ofidenti1
the rise in wake of global finan
IDENTITY THIEVES are
responding to stories of bank
Clilures and other events related
to the current global financial
crisis with new scams designed
to exploit consumers' fears.
Recent ~torie$ have reported
increased incidents of "phishing"
emails that appear to come from
your bank, falsely informing you
that your account information
needs' updating due to a recent
merger.
Another story reported busi nesses
being threatened with potential
large scale data breaches of the
personal records of millions of
their customers.
So \Vhv is LifeLock CEO Todd
Davis still giving out his re,al
Social Security number to anyone who willli:;ten?
"Because between LifeLoek's
proactive approach and our
$1 rnilliol1 service guarantee, I'm
more confident th;n ever bef;,)re

the risk of identitv thieves ruining your credit a~d good wune
- even if rour information gets in
the wrong hands."
More importantly, what LifeLock
doesn't stop, they fIx at their e.xpense
up to $1,000,000. That's their $1
Million Total Service Guarantee.

Another had his identitv stolen at age 7, but didn't fi~d out
until t~n years later when he
. was denied a student loan and
a job due' to poor credit. JIe
was I7-years-old and 540,000
in debt because someone had
purchased a housebo;Jt in his
!lame. He struggled for 10
years to clear his name.

the \'ictim', nar
was turned dow:
assistance becau
else was using the
rity number of he
so~ and earning
than her.
Davis IS camp
even stronger j

Does It Work? Look at
the Facts.
"With over a million LifcLock
members, statisticallv YOU would
expect to see over 30;000 identity thefts annually, costing our
members hundreds of hours
and thousands of dollars," Davis
said.
"Now, those afe thefts that would
come under the protection of our
$1 ~1illiol1 Total Service Guarantee, so our members would be
out nothing, but we haven't seen
al1ywhere near 30,000 victims.
\Ve havell't even seen 300."

1. Place Fraud Alerts On Your Credit Report.
'Fraud alerts make it extremely dlfficult for thieve
new lines of credit in your name. Fraud alerts have p
effective in stopping unauthorized use of personal in
You can place fraud alerts with all three major credil
. agencies (Equi£'1x, Experian, TransUnion), but akrts L
days and must be renewed continuously to be effective

2. Order ALL THREE Free Credit Reports.
\Vhether or not you are a victim of identity rhett, take
of your free annual credit reports. Visit www.annualcr
com.
3. Opt Out Of Unsolicited Credit Card Offers.

The t:lLt is, less than one

out status. This reduces the possibility of someone ritlir
nune
(Jut the time

gU:ILintce~

h\" other idencrimes in .'\lllerica,
lOpped the FTC's list
of consumer
f()f
:;evcn com;ecurivc vcars. In
another identitv i; stolell ever"
three seconds ..

So How Big of a Problem
is Identitv Theft?
Financial

c'osts

Yes, That's His Real ;'\lumber
"Of course, vou should never
share \'our Social Security numnec"essarv,"
"btl! !()r rhe rec();d,
mille rt':dh ._5462"

\Vhe,n \"OU t:Kror in thar thieve"
hold (Hlln Information for six

Il);\\'

months or
lP'!

th'lt

bet(lre
!

4, Become Acquainted 'With A Shredder.

1\11 read mail should go
the
beftm.:
the trash. Though identity theft is steadily
most
theft still done
trash
shredder i')n alJ ofyuur personal documents, makes the
would-be identity thicfinfinitely more difficult.

it,

";:;f)<r1,. "'>tnl~'t) ;'ili"nt;t"~-

can be done
anv(
consumers with
If) theft issues. When select
make sure that they
the

tcmnd in LifeLock

EXHIBIT 11

Nlrorm~bon , And

remember, what we

don't slDp, ,",'C'W fi\ al our

I!XDell5e,

IU!/;,U"",,, Ih.e ,ndus!r leader in ideobly
nmlllt'ltinn U1kes lHoactive steps to

lIP to S 1,000,000. rm SO confident in
Ulelotll's all 'I}' 10 protect my ill
ty
I ollbMh my Socml Security oomb , To

the riSk of ldel1llly t/lJeves
~ledit atld ruinir1g )'001
- even if tI1ey get ytl\I'

thai same level 01 cQIlflde.nce
and puce 0 mimI, rd !!lIe to gIVe you
Ulelod lor 30 da s. absolutely Iree..
gM! yCIII

14003

EXHIBIT 12

Identity Theft Prevention - Identity Theft Protectio n

Page 1 of 8

DD

1-800-LifeLock
1-800-543-3562

• How LifeLoQk Works
o What We Do
o How We Do It
o What To Expect
o Who WeAre

• $) Million Servi.ce

GU<lrant~~

• Aho.ut Us
o About LifeLock
o Press Room
• Enroll Now

• Welcome
• About Us
• Privacy Policy

LifeLock Client Privacy Policy

LifeLock, Inc is a licensee of the TRUSTe Privacy Program. TRUSTe is an independent, non-profit
organization whose mission is to build users' trust and confidence in the Internet hy promoting the use of
fair infonnation practices. This privacy statement covers the site [WWW.LIFELOCK.COM}. Because
this web site wants to demonstrate its commitment to your privacy, it has agreed to disclose its
information practices and have its privacy practices reviewed forcompliance by TRUSTe.
If you have questions or concerns regarding thi s statement, you sho uld fi rst contact LifeLock Client
Services by email at clienL se rvi ccs@ lifel()(;k .cor]1 or 877.LIFELOCK. If you do not receive

http ://web.archi ve.orglwebI200802 12043628/www.life!ock.comJabout-us!about -Ii feJock/pr. .. 7/10/2009

Identity Theft Prevention - Identity Theft Protection

Page 2 of8

acknowledgment of your inquiry or your inquiry has not been satisfactorily addressed. you should then
contact TRUSTe at
TRUSTe will then serve as a liaison with the Web site to resolve your concerns.
Welcome to LifeLock. Keeping your non-public personal mformation secure and confidential is our top
priority. Please take a moment to read the LifeLock Customer Privacy Policy carefully to learn how we
handle your personal information.
This policy may change from time to time. Please check this policy each time you use our web site in
order to have the most current information on this topic.
In all circumstances, we take reasonablc steps to:
Give you, a customer of LifeLock or as a user of our web site, clear notice when we are requesting
information from you, the types of information we request from you, the general purposes for which that
information will be used or disclosed, the categories of users to whom we provide the information;
Offer you the ability to opt out of such uses; Maintain accurate records and provide you access to your
personally identifiable information; and Use safe and secure systems, physical and electronic, to
safeguard your non-public personal information.
While registering on our site, we will ask you for the following types of information: contact information
(such as name, address, phone number, and email address); sensitive information (such as social security
number); and financial information (such as credit card number). This information is required in order to
verify your identity, charge you the appropriate and agreed fees and fulfill our services on your behalf
with the outside agencies with whom we must communicate to set your lock.
We will also ask you for certain third-party personal information such as your favorite color, where and
when you last attended high school. We use this information to help verify your identity with us.
We do not collect personally identifiable information on our website through cookies or any other
technology except where you clearly enter it.

Why we collect non-public personal information
As a customer of LifeLock or as a user of our web site, we want you to know that we will only collect
your non-public personal information for the following reasons:

•

• To place the lock on your identity
• To resolve a case of identity theft
In each of these circumstances, we will only collect and use the minimum information needed to
accomplish the stated purpose, and only with your full knowledge and consent. In many of these
circumstances, our principal role is actually to facilitate a relationship in which you provide your
reporting agency or
information directly to a third party ~ for instance, to place a fraud alert with a
to file a police report. In such cases, LifeLock may not need to collect your information at all.

How we collect non-public personal information
When you visit the LifeLock web site, you are able to do so anonymously. Generally, wc don't collect
non-public personal information when you browse - not evcn your email address. Life Lock does collect

http://web.archive.orglweb/2008021204 3628/www.lifeJock.com/about-us/about -Ii felock/pc

10/2009

Identity Theft Prevention

Identity Theft Protection

Page 3 of8

general Internet data, such as how often each of our web pages was visited and how much time was spent
on each page. None of this infonnation identifies you personally. We use it only to analyze traffic
patterns on our web site in order to make our site more useful to our visitors and to evaluate the
effectiveness of our marketing efforts.
We use log files on our webserver as well as third-party and internally developed Customer Relationship
Management (CRM) technology to capture and analyze this data. We do not identify you personally, nor
will we ever market to you from the infonnation we gather without your express approvaL The LifeLock
web site contains links to other sites. LifeLock does not share your non-public personal infonnation with
those web sites and is not responsible for their privacy practices, which may differ from ours in
significant ways. We encourage you to learn about the privacy policies of those web sites and the
companies that operate them. However, web sites to which we link may use cookie technology to gather
and store data about their visitors. Cookies contain a small amount of infonnation, possibly including
non-public personal infonnation, which allows a web server to recognize you whenever you visit. Again,
we encourage you to familiarize yourself with the privacy and infonnation collection practices of any
web site you visit.
We also receive infonnation from you online when you send us email, applications and other fonns, or
when you register at our web sites. We may also collect infonnation about your transactions with us or
with our direct partners, such as what products and services you ordered. In each of these circumstances,
as mentioned above, we will only collect and use the minimum infonnation needed to accomplish the
stated purpose, and only with your full knowledge and consent. We will never share this infonnation with
any third party. The LifeLock web site is not intended for the use of children, defined as individuals
under the age of 18. We do not knowingly solicit personal infonnation from children or send them
requests for non-public personal infonnation.

When and to whom we disclose non-public personal information
We will never disclose your non-public personal infonnation to any third party or affiliate under normal
circumstances. As mentioned above, there are circumstances in which you yourself may provide nonpublic personal infonnation to third parties involved in the crisis resolution process. Such inforn1ation
will be provided directly by you to the parties in question. Such third parties might include:
• a credit reporting agency representative, in the course of placing a fraud alert;
• a police officer, in the course of filing a police report;
• an insurance claims officer, in the course of filing an insurance claim; or

•
At times we may be required by law or legal process to disclose your personal infonnation. We will
with any such law or

How we protect your non-public personal information
LifeLock uses highly secure physical, clectronic, and managerial procedures to safeguard the
confidentiality and security ofthe data you provide to us.
• None of your non-public personal infonnation will ever be disclosed by us to any third party or
affiliate in ways other than disclosed in this privacy statement.
• Only authorized employees of LifeLock will have access to the data that you provide to us, and that
access is granted only on a "need to know" basis.

http://web.archive.orglweb/20080212043628/www.iifeiock.com/about-us/about-lifeJock/pr ..

012009

Identity Theft Prevention

~

Identity Theft Protection

Page 40ti)

• In cases of identity theft crisis resolution, only the advocate working on the case and key
administrative supervisors have access to your non-public personal inforn1ation.
• All stored personal data is electronically encrypted.
• We will never transmit any personal data that you provide to us over the public Internet.
• Any data that we transmit over a private network will be sent via secure, encrypted channels.
• Your documents, while in our care, will be treated as if they were cash. Once input into our data
systems, all paper documents are destroyed, usually the same business day.

Security
The seeurity of your personal information is important to us. When you enter sensitive information (such
as credit card number and/or social security number) on our registration or order forms, we encrypt that
information using secure socket layer technology (SSL).
We follow generally accepted industry standards to protect the personal information submitted to us, both
during transmission and once we receive it. No method of transmission over the Internet, or method of
electronic storage, is 100% secure, however. Therefore, while we strive to use commercially acceptable
means to protect your personal information, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.
If you have any questions about security on our Web site, you can send email us at
client.servicestll;lifelock.com Likewise, we urge you to take every precaution to protect your personal
data, both on and off the Internet

Opt Out
We provide you the opportunity to "opt-out" of having your personally identifiable information used for
certain purposes, when we ask for this information. For example, if you purchase a product/service but do
not wish to receive any additional marketing matelial from us, you can indicate your preference on our
order form.
If you no longer wish to receive our newsletter and promotional eommunications, you may opt-out of
receiving them by following the instructions included in each newsletter or communication or by
emailing us at cl icnt.scrviccsQl.1i felock.col11, or you may contact us at 877 LIFELOCK or by regular mail
at:

Suite 400
AZ
You will be notified when your personal information is collected by any third party that is not our
agent/service provider, so you can make an informed choice as to whether or not to share your
information with that party.

Bulletin Boards and Chat Rooms
From time to time we place testimonials on our website from our clients. We do this only after
permission from the chent providing the testimonial. It may be removed at any time at the request of the
client. Should you choose to disclose personal information on our site, we are not responsible for the way
third parties may use this inforn1ation. Third parties may use your personal information for a
of

http://web.archive.org!webI20080212043628/www.lifelock.com/about-us/about-Iifclock/pr. ..

012009

Identity Theft Prevention

Identity Theft Protection

Page 5

of~

purposes, including unsolicited marketing and sales attempts.

Access to your non-public personal information
You always have access to the information we have about you. If you would like to review non-public
personal infol111ation that LifeLock may have about you, contact us via your secure web site or call1-877
LIFELOCK. If you need to make changes to your non-public personal infol111ation, you may do so by
logging into your account on this website, by calling our Client Services Group at 1-877-LIFELOCK or
by mail at:
LifeLock Client Services
60 East Rio Salado Parkway
Suite 400
Tempe, AZ 85281

Our companywide commitment to privacy
To make sure your non-public personal infol111ation remains confidential, we communicate these privacy
guidelines to every LifeLock employee.
The LifeLock Customer Privacy Policy is subject to change at any time. We encourage you to review the
privacy policy regularly for any changes.

Cookies
A cookie is a small text file that is stored on a user's computer for record-keeping purposes. We use
cookies on this site. We do link the infol111ation we store in cookies to any personally identifiable
information you submit while on our site.
We use both session ID cookies and persistent cookies. We use session cookies to make it easier for you
to navigate our site. A session ID cookie expires when you close you browser. A persistent cookie
remains on your hard drive for an extended period of time. You can remove persistent cookies by
following directions provided in your Internet browser's "help" file.
We use a third party cookie from Google.com which provides us with usage information regarding our
It
If you
cookies, you may stilt use our site, but your ability to use some areas of our site, such as the
signup procedure or
will be

Service Providers
We use other third parties specifically Verisign to provide credit card validation on our site. When' you
sign up for our services, we will share your payment infol111ation as necessary for the third party to
provide that service.
These third parties are prohibited from using your personally identifiable infol111ation for any other
purpose.

http://web.archive.org/web/20080212043628/www.1ifeiock.com/about-us/abollt-lifeJock/pL.. 7/10/2009

Identity Theft Prevention ~ Identity Theft Protection

Page 60f15

Changes in this Privacy Statenlent
If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes to this privacy statement, the
homepage, and other places we deem appropriate so that you are a\vare of what infonnation we collect,
how we use it, and under what circumstances, jf any, we disclose it.
We reserve the right to modify this privacy statement at any time. so please review it frequently. Ifwe
make material changes to this policy, we will notify you here, by email, or by means of a notice on our
home page.

Contact Us
If you have any questions or suggestions regarding our privacy policy, please contact us at:
1.877.LIFELOCK, clienLservices(a,)lifelock.cQm, or our postal address:
LifeLock
60 East Rio Salado Parkway
Suite 400
Tempe, AZ 85281
Revised 19 April, 2007

Protect your I.D.
with the most advanced Identity Theft Protection system available!

•
• What We Do
o How does LifeLock protect my identity?
o How rnuch docs Li fcLock cost'!
o What is WalletLock?
• How We Do It

o What is a Fraud Alert?

o lro", is L
o
I
• What To Expect
Total
o When does
o Who calls me to let mc know that someone is
o Will Lifelock keep me from
new credit?
o
I do ifmy ldenlity has been
for

o

in my name')

my
card transactions')
not correct on my credit
can you fix it

http://web.archive.org/web/20080212043628/www.lifeIock.com/about-us/about-lifelocklpr.. 7il 0/2009

Identity Theft Prevention

~

Identity Theft Protection

o I have been a victIm of
• \Vho We Are
o Who is
o Who llses L 1
o What arc others

Page 7 of8

can you help me?

• LifeLock Protection for:
o Your Employees
o Your Customers
o Associations
o Universities
o Companies with an Identity Loss Incident
o Web Businesses
• Learn About LifeLock
o LifeLock IdentityThdl_Protection
o About LifeLoek
o Our $1 MillionService Guarantee
o Testimonials
o Endorsements
• About LifeLock
o Contact
o Board of Directors
o Testimonials
o Endorsements
o Privacy Policy
o Terms and Conditions
• Press Room
o 2008 Press Releases
o 2007 Press Releases
o 2()06 Press Releases
o 2005 Press Releases
o Media
• About LifeLock

o
• Press Room
o
Press Releases
o 2007 Press Releases
o 2006 Press Releases
o
Press
o Media

• Self Service
o
o

and

Number

http://web. archive.orglweb/2008021204 362 8/www.lifelock.com/about-us/about-(i felock/pr ...

012009

Identity Theft Prevention

~

Identity Theft Protection

Page 8 of8

o
o Cancellation
• AboUl

• Contact Ls
• Testimonials
• Endorsements
• Press Room

• Privacy Policy
• Tenns and Conditions
• Site Map

Copyright

2006-2008. LifeLock. All Rights Reserved.

http://web.archive.orglwcb/20080212043628/www.lifelock.com/about-us/about-lifelocklpr ...

0/2009

