Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 1 of 16

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA

Federal Trade Commission,
Plaintiff,
v.

No. CV-10-00530-PHX-JJT
[PROPOSED]

LifeLock, Inc., et al.,
Defendants.

STIPULATED ORDER RESOLVING FTC’S
ALLEGATIONS OF CONTEMPT AND
MODIFYING STIPULATED FINAL
JUDGMENT AND ORDER FOR
PERMANENT INJUNCTION

Plaintiff Federal Trade Commission (“FTC” or “Commission”) and defendant LifeLock,
Inc. (“LifeLock”) settle and resolve all matters in dispute arising from the FTC’s Contempt
action initiated against LifeLock on July 21, 2015 (DE #20), and pursuant to Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 60(b), to modify this Court’s March 15, 2010 Stipulated Final Judgment and
Order for Permanent Injunction and Other Equitable Relief (DE #9) (“Permanent Injunction”).
FINDINGS
1.

This Court entered the Permanent Injunction enjoining LifeLock from, inter alia,

“misrepresenting in any manner, expressly or by implication, the means, methods, procedures,
effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope” of its identity theft protection service (Section I.A.5);
2.

The Permanent Injunction enjoins LifeLock from “misrepresenting in any

manner, expressly or by implication, the manner or extent to which they maintain and protect the
privacy, confidentiality, or security of any personal information collected from or about
consumers” (Section I.B.);
-1-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 2 of 16

3.

The Permanent Injunction requires LifeLock to “establish and implement, and

thereafter maintain, a comprehensive information security program” (Section II);
4.

The Permanent Injunction further requires LifeLock to create and retain “[a]ll

records and documents necessary to determine full compliance with each provision” of the
Permanent Injunction (Section VIII.A.7);
5.

On July 21, 2015, the Commission alleged that LifeLock violated the Permanent

Injunction by: (a) failing to establish and maintain a comprehensive information security
program to protect its users’ sensitive personal data, including credit card, social security, and
bank account numbers; (b) falsely advertising that it protected consumers’ sensitive data with the
same high-level safeguards as financial institutions; (c) failing to meet the Permanent
Injunction’s recordkeeping requirements; and (d) falsely claiming it protected consumers’
identity 24/7/365 by providing alerts “as soon as” it received any indication there was a problem;
6.

LifeLock neither admits nor denies the allegations identified in Paragraph 5

7.

These findings constitute an appropriate change in circumstances to warrant

above;

modifying Sections VI through IX of the Permanent Injunction pursuant to Rule 60(b) of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; and
8.

The parties have agreed to settle the Commission’s allegations with the entry of

this Order.

-2-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 3 of 16

DEFINITIONS
1.

“Affected Consumer(s)” means any person(s) who has subscribed to any

LifeLock fee-based identity theft protection service, and could assert a claim arising from the
types of violations alleged in Paragraph 5 of the Findings, excluding: LifeLock; any parent,
subsidiary, affiliate, or controlled person of LifeLock; the officers, directors, agents, employees
of LifeLock; any counsel in the Covered Class Action; and any judge or court staff presiding
over the Covered Class Action or this action.
2.

“Covered Class Action” means Napoleon Ebarle et al. v. LifeLock, Inc., No. 3:15-

cv-258 (N.D. Cal. filed Jan. 19, 2015).
3.

“Money Received” means money paid as restitution by LifeLock to Affected

Consumers by check, charge-back, or other transfer of funds, to the extent:
a.

Such money was issued by LifeLock pursuant to settlement: (i) of the
Covered Class Action, or (ii) with any State Attorney General’s Office
entered within four (4) months from the date of this Order;

b.

Either: (i) a credit card company, bank, or other financial institution has
credited the Affected Consumer’s financial account with such money, or
(ii) any such check has been cashed by the Affected Consumer; and

c.

Consumer information involved in payment of such money is handled in a
manner that is consistent with the Commission’s privacy and data security
standards, policies, and practices.

For the purpose of clarification, Money Received shall not include any
administrative fees, attorneys’ fees, or any other amount not directly issued to an
Affected Consumer, or any coupons, credits, or other consideration applicable

-3-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 4 of 16

towards the purchase of products or services offered by LifeLock or any other
entity.
ORDER
I.

PERMANENT INJUNCTION

IT IS ORDERED that the Permanent Injunction shall remain in full force and effect
except Sections VI through IX of the Permanent Injunction as to LifeLock, which are replaced
with Sections V through VIII below.
II.

MONETARY JUDGMENT AND CONSUMER REDRESS

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
A.

Judgment in the amount of One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000) is

entered in favor of the Commission against LifeLock as equitable monetary relief.
B.

LifeLock shall satisfy the judgment as follows:
1.

Pursuant to L.R. Civ. 67.1 and Fed. R. Civ. P. 67, LifeLock shall: (a)
deposit One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000) (“Settlement
Funds”) into the Court’s Registry within five (5) business days of entry of
this Order to be held in escrow for the sole purpose of distributing the
funds in accordance with this Order, and (b) comply fully with all of its
obligations under Section II of this Order. LifeLock is hereby authorized
to deposit One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000) into the Court’s
Registry.

2.

If LifeLock fails to comply with Section II.B.1(a), the judgment amount of
One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000) shall become immediately
due and payable to the Commission, and LifeLock shall not have any right

-4-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 5 of 16

to any credit, offset, or any other reimbursement for any Money Received
by Affected Consumers as provided in this Order.
C.

The Settlement Funds shall include any interest that the funds accrue while in the

Court’s Registry, minus costs pursuant to L.R. Civ. 67.1.
D.

The Settlement Funds shall be disbursed by motions pursuant to this Section II, if

both of the following conditions are met: (1) LifeLock acts expeditiously to obtain final court
approval of the settlement agreement in the Covered Class Action; and (2) all such motions are
filed by the earlier of eighteen (18) months from the date of this Order or two hundred seventy
(270) days from the date of final court approval of the settlement agreement in the Covered Class
Action.
E.

Subject to Section II.D, LifeLock may use up to Sixty Eight Million Dollars

($68,000,000) of the Settlement Funds to fund an escrow account established in the Covered
Class Action if all of the following conditions are met:
1.

LifeLock has obtained preliminary court approval of the settlement
agreement in the Covered Class Action; and

2.

The agreement governing the escrow fund ensures that:
i.

All payments from the escrow account are issued directly to
Affected Consumers for the sole purpose of providing consumer
redress;

ii.

All payments from the escrow account either become Money
Received by Affected Consumers within one hundred twenty (120)
days of such payment or are returned immediately to the escrow
account;

-5-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 6 of 16

iii.

The escrow account transfers all remaining funds, including any
interest that has accrued in the escrow account, to the Commission
after the expiration of the deadline for motions in Section II.D.2;
and

iv.

As many Affected Consumers as reasonably practicable receive
payments from the escrow fund.

F.

If an agreement governing an escrow account funded pursuant to Section II.E

ceases to comply with any of the criteria in Section II.E.2, or such escrow account ceases to be
administered in compliance with all of the criteria in Section II.E.2, LifeLock shall immediately:
(1) deposit into the Court’s Registry as Settlement Funds the amount of money in the escrow
fund immediately prior to such non-compliance, or if the Settlement Funds have already been
transferred by the Court to the Commission under Section II.J, (2) pay such amount directly to
the Commission.
G.

Subject to Sections II.D and H through M, LifeLock shall have a right to the

amount of Settlement Funds remaining in the Court’s Registry equal to: (1) Money Received by
Affected Consumers, other than such Money Received that was paid out of an escrow account
funded under Section II.D and compliant with Section II.D.2 at the time of issuance of payment
to the Affected Consumer, plus (2) the interest accrued on such amount specified in subsection
(1) while in the Court’s Registry.
H.

LifeLock shall have a right to seek disbursement of the funds identified in Section

II.G by motion in up to three (3) installments.
I.

Under no circumstances shall LifeLock receive more than one (1) disbursement

from the Settlement Funds for each payment of Money Received by Affected Consumers.

-6-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 7 of 16

J.

The Commission shall be entitled to all remaining Settlement Funds in the Court’s

Registry: (1) upon the Court’s resolution of all motions timely filed under this Section II, or if
no such timely filed motion is pending, (2) upon the expiration of the deadline for motions in
Section II.D.2.
K.

If any portion of the Money Received by Affected Consumers for which LifeLock

received disbursement from the Settlement Funds is returned to LifeLock, LifeLock shall remit
such portion to the Commission within ten (10) business days.
L.

All money paid to the Commission pursuant to this Order may be deposited into a

fund administered by the Commission or its designee to be used for equitable relief, including
consumer redress and any attendant expenses for the administration of any redress fund. If a
representative of the Commission decides that direct redress to consumers is wholly or partially
impracticable or money remains after redress is completed, the Commission may apply any
remaining money for such other equitable relief (including consumer information remedies) as it
determines to be reasonably related to LifeLock’s practices as set forth in this Order. Any
money not used for such equitable relief is to be deposited to the U.S. Treasury as disgorgement.
LifeLock has no right to challenge any actions the Commission or its representatives may take
pursuant to this Subsection.
M.

LifeLock relinquishes dominion and all legal and equitable right, title, and interest

in all assets transferred to the Court’s Registry or to the Commission pursuant to this Order,
except as specified in Sections II.D through II.J.
N.

Lifelock warrants and represents that as of the date it executes this Order, after

giving effect to Section II, Lifelock will not: (1) be insolvent (either because its financial
condition is such that the sum of its debts is greater than the fair market value of its assets or

-7-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 8 of 16

because the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount required to pay its probable
liabilities on its existing debts as they mature); (2) have unreasonably small capital with which to
engage in its business; or (3) have incurred debts beyond its ability to pay as they become due.
O.

LifeLock acknowledges that its Taxpayer Identification Numbers which it

previously submitted to the Commission may be used for collecting and reporting any delinquent
amount arising out of this Order, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. §7701.
P.

All payments to the Commission under this Order must be made by electronic

fund transfer in accordance with instructions previously provided by a representative of the
Commission.
III.

CUSTOMER INFORMATION

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that LifeLock shall provide customer information
requested by the Commission to enable the Commission to efficiently administer customer
redress. If a representative of the Commission requests in writing any information related to
redress, LifeLock must provide it, in the form prescribed by the Commission, within ten (10)
days.
IV.

ENTRY OF ORDER

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that there is no just reason for delay of entry of this
Order, and the clerk shall enter this Order immediately.
V.

COMPLIANCE REPORTING

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in order that compliance with the provisions of the
Permanent Injunction and this Order may be monitored:
A.

For a period of five (5) years from the date of entry of this Order, LifeLock shall

notify the Commission of any changes in its corporate structure or any business entity that

-8-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 9 of 16

LifeLock directly or indirectly controls, or has ownership interest in, that may affect compliance
obligations under the Permanent Injunction or this Order, including, but not limited to:
incorporation or other organization; a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action; the
creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any practices subject to
the Permanent Injunction or this Order; or a change in the business name or address, at least
thirty (30) days prior to such change, provided that, with respect to any proposed change in the
business entity of which LifeLock learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is
to take place, LifeLock shall notify the Commission as soon as practicable after obtaining such
knowledge.
B.

One hundred eighty (180) days after the date of entry of this Order and annually

thereafter for a period of five (5) years, LifeLock shall provide a written report to the FTC,
which is true and accurate and sworn to under penalty of perjury, setting forth in detail the
manner and form in which it has complied and is complying with the Permanent Injunction and
this Order. This report shall include, but not be limited to: (1) a copy of each acknowledgement
of receipt of the Permanent Injunction and this Order obtained pursuant to the Section titled
“Distribution of Order;” and (2) any other changes required to be reported under Subsection A of
this Section.
C.

LifeLock shall notify the Commission of the filing of any bankruptcy petition,

insolvency proceeding, or similar proceeding within fifteen (15) days of its filing. Unless
directed otherwise by a Commission representative in writing, all submissions to the
Commission pursuant to this Order must be emailed to DEbrief@ftc.gov or sent by overnight
courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of

-9-

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 10 of 16

Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington,
DC 20580. The subject line must begin: FTC v. LifeLock, Inc., X100023.
VI. COMPLIANCE MONITORING
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for the purpose of monitoring LifeLock’s compliance
with the Permanent Injunction and this Order:
A.

Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of written notice from a representative of the

Commission, LifeLock shall submit additional written reports or other requested information,
which are true and accurate and sworn to under penalty of perjury; produce documents for
inspection and copying; appear for deposition; and provide entry during normal business hours to
any business location in LifeLock’s possession or direct or indirect control to inspect the
business operation;
B.

In addition, the Commission is authorized to use all other lawful means, including

but not limited to:
1.

Obtaining discovery from any person, without further leave of court, using
any of the procedures prescribed by Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 29,
30 (including telephonic depositions), 31, 33, 34, 36, 45, and 69;

2.

Posing as consumers and suppliers to LifeLock, their employees, or any
other entity managed or controlled in whole or in part by LifeLock without
the necessity of identification or prior notice;

C.

LifeLock shall permit representatives of the Commission to interview any

employer, consultant, independent contractor, representative, agent or employee who has agreed
to such an interview, relating in any way to any conduct subject to the Permanent Injunction or
this Order. The person interviewed may have counsel present; and

- 10 -

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 11 of 16

D.

Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use of compulsory process,

pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 57b-1, to obtain any
documentary material, tangible things, testimony, or information relevant to unfair or deceptive
acts or practices in or affecting commerce (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. § 45(a)(1)).
VII.

RECORD KEEPING PROVISIONS

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
LifeLock is hereby restrained and enjoined from failing to create and retain the following
records for the following periods:
A.

For a period of thirteen (13) years from the date of entry of the Permanent

Injunction, the following records in connection with the sale or provision of products or services
related to identity theft:
1.

Accounting records that reflect the cost of goods or services sold, revenues
generated, and the distribution of such revenues;

2.

Personnel records accurately reflecting: the name, address, and telephone
number of each person employed in any capacity by such business,
including as an independent contractor; that person’s job title or position;
the date upon which the person commenced work; and the date and reason
for the person’s termination, if applicable;

3.

Consumer files containing the names, addresses, phone numbers, dollar
amounts paid, quantity of items or services purchased, and description of
items or services purchased, to the extent such information is obtained in
the ordinary course of business;

- 11 -

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 12 of 16

4.

Complaints and refund requests (whether received directly, indirectly, or
through any third party) and any responses to those complaints and
requests;

5.

Copies of all sales scripts, training materials, advertisements, or other
marketing materials;

6.

Any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of LifeLock, that
contradict, qualify or call into question LifeLock’s compliance with
Sections I, II, and III of the Permanent Injunction; and

7.

All records and documents necessary to demonstrate full compliance with
each provision of the Permanent Injunction and this Order, including but
not limited to, copies of acknowledgments of receipt required by the
Permanent Injunction and this Order, all reports submitted to the FTC
pursuant to the Section of this Order titled “Compliance Reporting.”

B.

For a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment

required under the Section of the Permanent Injunction titled “Biennial Assessment
Requirements”: All materials relied upon to prepare the Assessment, whether prepared by or on
behalf of LifeLock, including but not limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit
trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to
LifeLock’s compliance with the Section of the Permanent Injunction titled “Biennial Assessment
Requirements.”
C.

For a period of five (5) years from the date of entry of this Order, records and

documents sufficient to provide all material facts regarding Money Received by Affected
Consumers and the administration of the escrow account funded under Section II.E, including

- 12 -

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 13 of 16

but not limited to: (1) identity of each Affected Consumer who received a payment, (2) the
amount of each payment, (3) the manner in which LifeLock issued each payment, (4) the date of
each payment, (5) evidence that each payment was credited to an Affected Consumer’s financial
account or was otherwise cashed, and (6) all escrow account activity and balances.
VIII. DISTRIBUTION OF ORDER
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
For a period of five (5) years from the date of entry of this Order, LifeLock shall deliver
copies of the Permanent Injunction and this Order as directed below:
A.

LifeLock must deliver a copy of the Permanent Injunction and this Order to: (1)

all of its principals, officers, directors, and managers; (2) all of its employees, agents, and
representatives who engage in conduct related to the subject matter of the Permanent Injunction
and this Order; and (3) any business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in
Subsection A of the Section of this Order titled “Compliance Reporting.” For current personnel,
delivery shall occur within seven (7) days of entry of this Order. For all others, delivery shall
occur prior to them assuming their responsibilities. For any business entity resulting from any
change in structure set forth in Subsection A of the Section of this Order titled “Compliance
Reporting,” delivery shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the change in structure.
B.

LifeLock must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of the

Permanent Injunction and this Order, within thirty (30) days of delivery, from all persons
receiving a copy of the Permanent Injunction and this Order pursuant to this Section.

- 13 -

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 14 of 16

IX.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT OF THIS ORDER

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that LifeLock, within five (5) business days of receipt of
this Order as entered by the Court, must submit to the Commission a truthful sworn statement
acknowledging receipt of this Order.
X.

RETENTION OF JURISDICTION

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Court shall continue to retain jurisdiction of this
matter for all purposes.
IT IS SO ORDERED, this _____ day of ________ 2015.

_________________________________
U.S. District Judge
United States District Court for the
District of Arizona

- 14 -

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 15 of 16

STIPULATED AND AGREED TO BY:
FOR DEFENDANT LIFELOCK:

___________________________
Richard Todd Davis
Chief Executive Officer, LifeLock, Inc.

____________________________
David Boies
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
333 Main Street
Armonk, NY 10504
(914) 749-8200 (telephone)
(914) 749-8300 (facsimile)
dboies@bsfllp.com
Counsel for LifeLock, Inc.

- 15 -

Case 2:10-cv-00530-JJT Document 64-1 Filed 12/17/15 Page 16 of 16

FOR PLAINTIFF FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

- 16 -

