Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 1 of 18 PageID: 4861

THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY

Federal Trade Commission,
CIVIL ACTION NO.
2:13-CV-01887-ES-JAD

Plaintiff,
v.

STIPULATED ORDER FOR
INJUNCTION

Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, et al.,
Defendants.

Plaintiff, the Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”), filed its Complaint for
Injunctive and Other Equitable Relief, subsequently amended as First Amended Complaint for
Injunctive and Other Equitable Relief (“Complaint”), for a permanent injunction, and other
equitable relief in this matter, pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Federal Trade Commission Act
(“FTC Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 53(b). The Commission and Defendants stipulate to the entry of this
Stipulated Order for Injunction (“Order”) to resolve all matters in dispute in this action between
them.
THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED as follows:
FINDINGS
1. This Court has jurisdiction over this matter.
2. The Complaint alleges that Defendants participated in deceptive and unfair acts or practices
in violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45, related to their data security.
3. The agreement contained in this Order is for settlement purposes only.
4. This Order does not constitute an admission by Defendants that the law has been violated as
alleged in the complaint, or that the facts as alleged in the complaint, other than the
jurisdictional facts, are true.

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 2 of 18 PageID: 4862

5. Defendants waive any claim that they may have under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 28
U.S.C. § 2412, concerning the prosecution of this action through the date of this Order, and
agree to bear their own costs and attorney fees. The Commission also agrees to bear its own
costs and attorney fees. The parties agree that this Order resolves all allegations in the
Complaint.
6. Defendants and the Commission waive all rights to appeal or otherwise challenge or contest
the validity of this Order.
DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Order, the following definitions apply:
1. “Approved Standard” shall mean PCI DSS or, at the election of Hotels and Resorts, any
standard of comparable scope and thoroughness approved by the Associate Director for
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission.
2. “Breach” shall be defined as an intrusion into a Cardholder Data Environment within a
network that, as to Hotels and Resorts, is not an untrusted network, where Hotels and Resorts
has reason to suspect the unauthorized disclosure, theft, modification, or destruction of
Cardholder Data.
3. “Cardholder Data” shall have the meaning PCI DSS Version 3.1, attached hereto as
Appendix A, gives to the term “Cardholder Data,” i.e., “cardholder data” shall be defined, at
a minimum, as the full PAN. The PAN is the unique payment card number (typically for
credit or debit cards) that identifies the issuer and the particular cardholder account.
Cardholder data may also appear in the form of the full PAN plus any of the following:
cardholder name, expiration date, and/or service code.

2

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 3 of 18 PageID: 4863

4. “Cardholder Data Environment” shall have the meaning PCI DSS Version 3.1, attached
hereto as Appendix A, gives to the term “cardholder data environment,” i.e., the people,
processes, and technology that store, process, or transmit cardholder data or sensitive
authentication data.
5.

“Defendants” shall mean (1) Hotels and Resorts; (2) Wyndham Hotel Management, Inc.; (3)
Wyndham Hotel Group, LLC and its successors and assigns; and (4) Wyndham Worldwide
Corporation and its successors and assigns.

6. “Hotels and Resorts” shall mean Wyndham Hotels and Resorts, LLC, its subsidiaries and
divisions, and its successors and assigns; provided, however, that in no event shall “Hotels
and Resorts” include any of the Wyndham-branded Hotels. No entity shall be considered a
subsidiary or a division for purposes of the definition of Hotels and Resorts in the event such
entity is no longer a subsidiary or division of Hotels and Resorts.
7. “PCI DSS” shall mean the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, Requirements
and Security Assessment Procedures, Version 3.1, attached hereto as Appendix A, or, in the
event such standard no longer exists, any successor standard established or approved by the
Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, any successor entity to said Council, or
all of the major payment card brands. In the event no such successor standard or successor
entity exists, PCI DSS shall mean a standard of comparable scope and thoroughness
approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection,
Federal Trade Commission.
8. “Practice” shall mean any act or omission implicating information security, including any
conduct, implementation, control, configuration, procedure, process, or policy.

3

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 4 of 18 PageID: 4864

9. “Treat as an untrusted network” shall mean to implement the security protections that PCI
DSS Version 3.1, attached hereto as Appendix A, requires to be put in place with regard to an
untrusted network.
10. “Untrusted network” shall have the meaning that Requirement 1.2 of PCI DSS Version 3.1,
attached hereto as Appendix A, gives to the term “untrusted network,” i.e., any network that
is external to the networks belonging to the entity under review, and/or which is out of the
entity’s ability to control or manage.
11. “Wyndham-branded Hotel” shall mean an independently-owned hotel that is operated in the
United States pursuant to a management or franchise agreement with Hotels and Resorts or
Wyndham Hotel Management, Inc. or any of their respective subsidiaries (a) under one of the
following brand names or any successor brand name to one of the following brand names:
Wyndham Hotels and Resorts, Wyndham Grand, and Wyndham Garden Hotels, or (b) under
any other hotel brand name that is marketed by Hotels and Resorts to potential licensees of
such brand name by means of a Franchise Disclosure Document or any other regulatory
disclosure document generally required by the Federal Trade Commission to be delivered to
a potential licensee in connection with the sale of a franchise.
ORDER
I.

COMPREHENSIVE INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM

IT IS ORDERED that Hotels and Resorts shall, no later than the date of entry of this
Order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, for twenty (20) years after entry of this
Order, a comprehensive information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the
security, confidentiality, and integrity of Cardholder Data that it collects or receives in the United
States from or about consumers. Such program, the content and implementation of which must

4

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 5 of 18 PageID: 4865

be fully documented in writing, shall consist of the following administrative, technical, and
physical safeguards appropriate to Hotels and Resorts’ size and complexity, the nature and scope
of Hotels and Resorts’ activities, and the sensitivity of the Cardholder Data at issue:
A.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for
the information security program;

B.

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of Cardholder Data that could result in the
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise
of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place
to control these risks. At a minimum, this risk assessment should include
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited
to, (1) employee training and management, (2) information systems, including
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and
disposal, (3) risks emanating from the Wyndham-branded Hotels, and
(4) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or other systems
failure;

C.

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks
identified through risk assessment (including any risks emanating from the
Wyndham-branded Hotels), and regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness
of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures;

D.

the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service providers
capable of appropriately safeguarding Cardholder Data they receive from Hotels

5

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 6 of 18 PageID: 4866

and Resorts and requiring such service providers by contract to implement and
maintain appropriate safeguards for such information; and
E.

the evaluation and adjustment of Hotels and Resorts’ information security
program described herein in light of the results of the testing and monitoring
required by Part I.C or any other circumstances (including any material changes
to Hotels and Resorts’ operations or business arrangements) that Hotels and
Resorts knows or has reason to know may have a material impact on the
effectiveness of such information security program.
II.

CARDHOLDER DATA ASSESSMENTS

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, Hotels and Resorts shall, so long as there is a
Cardholder Data Environment within a network that, as to Hotels and Resorts, is not an untrusted
network, but in any event, for no longer than a period of twenty (20) years after entry of this
Order:
A.

Annually obtain a written assessment of the extent of Hotels and Resorts’
compliance with the Approved Standard (each such annual assessment, together
with any certification relative to such assessment that may be obtained pursuant to
Part II.B, being defined as an “Assessment”). Each annual Assessment shall be
completed by December 31. For each annual Assessment, the assessor
conducting the Assessment must certify as to the extent of Hotels and Resorts’
compliance with the Approved Standard. In addition, the assessor must:
1.

certify individually, as to each Wyndham-branded Hotel, whether Hotels
and Resorts treats as an untrusted network any Wyndham-branded Hotel’s
network that has a Cardholder Data Environment, and if any such network

6

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 7 of 18 PageID: 4867

is not treated as untrusted, certify that such network either is included in
the Assessment or has during the 12 months preceding the Assessment
separately been validated to be fully compliant with the Approved
Standard;
2.

certify as to the extent of Hotels and Resorts’ compliance with each
element of a risk management protocol at least as thorough as Version 2.0
of the PCI DSS Risk Assessment Guidelines, attached hereto as
Appendix B; and

3.

certify that the Assessment was conducted by a qualified, objective,
independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards
generally accepted in the profession, adheres to professional and business
ethics, performs all duties objectively, and is free from any conflicts of
interest that might compromise the assessor’s independent judgment in
performing Assessments. Professionals qualified to prepare Assessments
shall be: a person qualified as a Certified Information Systems Security
Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems Auditor
(CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance Certification
(GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; a
Qualified Security Assessor under PCI DSS (QSA); or, at the election of
Hotels and Resorts, a similarly qualified person or organization approved
by the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission.

7

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 8 of 18 PageID: 4868

B.

If the assessor that conducts an Assessment described in Part II.A does not certify
that Hotels and Resorts is fully compliant with the Approved Standard on which
the Assessment in question is based and with the risk protocol referenced in
Part II.A.2 (a “Noncompliant Assessment”), Hotels and Resorts shall, within sixty
(60) days from the completion of the Noncompliant Assessment in question, obtain
a certification from an assessor qualified under Part II.A.3 attesting as to the extent
of Hotels and Resorts’ compliance with any requirements under the Approved
Standard and/or the risk protocol in question that were not certified as being in
place by the assessor that conducted the Assessment.

C.

Within one hundred and eighty (180) days following discovery of a Breach
involving more than 10,000 unique payment card numbers, Hotels and Resorts
shall obtain an assessment that meets the requirements, established by the PCI
Security Standards Council, of a PCI Forensic Investigator Final Incident Report
(or the equivalent of such a report under then-current standards established by the
PCI Security Standards Council, any successor entity to said council, or the major
card brands), or, at the election of Hotels and Resorts, a standard of comparable
scope and thoroughness approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission.

D.

If Hotels and Resorts obtains (i) an Assessment certifying that Hotels and Resorts
is fully compliant with the Approved Standard and (ii) such Assessment includes
or is accompanied by the certifications called for by Part II.A.1-II.A.3, Hotels and
Resorts shall be deemed in compliance with Part I of this Order for one year from

8

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 9 of 18 PageID: 4869

the date of that Assessment or until the next December 31 Assessment deadline,
whichever is earlier. Provided, however:
1.

A Practice by Hotels and Resorts shall not be deemed in compliance with
Part I of this Order based upon a Part II.A Assessment if Hotels and
Resorts made a representation, express or implied, regarding the Practice
that either misrepresented or omitted a material fact and such
misrepresentation or omission would likely affect a reasonable Assessor’s
decision about whether the Practice complied with the Approved Standard.
Further, in the event that such a misrepresentation or omission was made
for the purpose of deceiving the assessor, Hotels and Resorts shall not be
deemed compliant with any portion of Part I or Part II.A of this Order
based on that Assessment.

2.

Hotels and Resorts shall not be deemed in compliance with Part I of this
Order based upon a Part II.A Assessment as to any Practice that is a
significant change from any Practice in place at the time of the
Assessment in question, unless, at the time of the significant change, an
assessor qualified under Part II.A.3 certifies that the significant change
does not cause Hotels and Resorts to fall out of compliance with the
Approved Standard on which the Assessment in question was based.

This Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the construction of this Order in any matter or
proceeding involving or relating to unfair data security practices for Cardholder Data. Hotels
and Resorts shall provide each Assessment required by this Part II, including any Part II.B
certification or Part II.C report, to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer

9

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 10 of 18 PageID: 4870

Protection, Federal Trade Commission, within ten (10) days after the Assessment, certification,
or report is delivered to Hotels and Resorts by the assessor or investigator in question. Unless
otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission in writing, Hotels and Resorts shall
email these materials to Debrief@ftc.gov or send them by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal
Service) to: Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade
Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580. The subject line must
begin: FTC v. Wyndham Worldwide Corp., et. al., FTC File No. X120032.
III.

ORDER ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, Wyndham Hotel
Group, LLC, and Hotels and Resorts obtain acknowledgements of receipt of this Order:
A.

Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, Wyndham Hotel Group, LLC, and Hotels and
Resorts, within seven (7) days of entry of this Order, must submit to the
Commission an acknowledgement of receipt of this Order.

B.

Hotels and Resorts shall deliver a copy of this Order: (1) to all its current
subsidiaries within thirty (30) days after entry of this Order; and (2) for ten (10)
years after entry of this Order, to any future subsidiary within thirty (30) days
after its acquisition by Hotels and Resorts.

C.

For ten (10) years after entry of this Order, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation,
Wyndham Hotel Group, LLC, and Hotels and Resorts must deliver a copy of this
Order to (1) all controlling principals, board of directors members, and LLC
managers and members; (2) all officers, employees, agents, and representatives
having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of this Order; and (3) any
business entity resulting from any change in structure as set forth in the Part titled

10

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 11 of 18 PageID: 4871

Compliance Reporting. Delivery must occur within fourteen (14) days of entry of
this Order for current personnel. For all other personnel, delivery must occur
before they assume their responsibilities.
IV.

COMPLIANCE REPORTING

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, Wyndham Hotel
Group, LLC, and Hotels and Resorts make timely submissions to the Commission:
A.

One year after entry of this Order, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, Wyndham
Hotel Group, LLC, and Hotels and Resorts each must submit a compliance report
certified as truthful by a senior corporate officer with the requisite corporate and
organizational authority that: (a) identifies the primary physical, postal, and email
address and telephone number, as designated points of contact, which
representatives of the Commission may use to communicate with that Defendant;
(b) identifies all of that Defendant’s United States businesses by all of their
names, telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses;
(c) describes the activities of that Defendant’s business and the involvement of
any other Defendant; (d) describes in detail (either directly or by incorporating by
reference a Part II.A. Assessment) whether and how that Defendant is in
compliance with each Part of this Order; and (e) provides a copy of each Order
Acknowledgement obtained pursuant to this Order, unless previously submitted to
the Commission.

B.

For ten (10) years after entry of this Order, each of Wyndham Worldwide
Corporation, Wyndham Hotel Group, LLC, and Hotels and Resorts must submit a
compliance notice within fourteen (14) days of any change in the following:

11

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 12 of 18 PageID: 4872

(a) any designated point of contact; or (b) the structure of that Defendant or any
entity that that Defendant has any ownership interest in or controls directly or
indirectly that may affect compliance obligations arising under this Order,
including: creation, assignment, sale, merger, or dissolution of the entity or any
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any act or practice subject to this
Order.
C.

Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission in writing, all
submissions to the Commission pursuant to this Order shall be emailed to
Debrief@ftc.gov or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to:
Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580.
The subject line must begin: FTC v. Wyndham Worldwide Corp., et al., FTC File
No. X120032.
V.

RECORDKEEPING

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, Wyndham Hotel
Group, LLC, and Hotels and Resorts shall maintain and upon request make available to the
Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy of:
A.

For a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment
required under Part II of this Order, all materials relied upon to prepare the
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of Hotels and Resorts, including
but not limited to all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies,
training materials, and assessments, and any other materials relied upon to prepare
the Assessment.

12

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 13 of 18 PageID: 4873

VI.

COMPLIANCE MONITORING

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, for purpose of monitoring Wyndham Worldwide
Corporation’s, Wyndham Hotel Group, LLC’s, and Hotels and Resorts’ compliance with this
Order:
A.

The Commission is authorized to seek discovery, without further leave of Court,
using any of the procedures prescribed by Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 29, 30
(including telephonic depositions), 31, 33, 34, 36, 45, and 69. Defendants may
assert any and all objections, defenses, rights, or privileges in the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure, the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other applicable law, as to
any such discovery request.

B.

Nothing in this Order limits the Commission’s lawful use of compulsory process,
pursuant to Sections 9 and 20 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 49, 57b-1.
Defendants may assert any and all objections, defenses, rights, or privileges
available to them, as to any such process.

C.

This Part shall apply so long as Defendants are subject to any obligation in Part I
or II of this Order, and for three years thereafter.
VII.

WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CORPORATION AND
WYNDHAM HOTEL GROUP, LLC

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, so long as Wyndham Worldwide Corporation or
Wyndham Hotel Group, LLC directly or indirectly holds Hotels and Resorts as a subsidiary, but
in any event no longer than 20 years after entry of this Order, it shall ensure that Hotels and
Resorts complies with this Order. In the event Wyndham Worldwide Corporation or Wyndham
Hotel Group, LLC no longer directly or indirectly holds Hotels and Resorts as a subsidiary, but
in any event no later than 20 years after entry of this Order, the obligations of Wyndham
13

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 14 of 18 PageID: 4874

Worldwide Corporation and Wyndham Hotel Group, LLC under this Order shall cease
immediately.
VIII. RETENTION OF JURISDICTION
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Court shall and does retain jurisdiction of this
matter for purposes of, and shall have exclusive jurisdiction over, any matter or proceeding
involving or relating to the modification and/or enforcement of this Order.
.

SO ORDERED this

day of

, 201_.

__________________________
Hon. Esther Salas, U.S.D.J.

14

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 16 of 18 PageID: 4876

Case 2:13-cv-01887-ES-JAD Document 282-1 Filed 12/09/15 Page 18 of 18 PageID: 4878

