UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS:

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman
Maureen K. Ohlhausen
Terrell McSweeny

__________________________________________
)
)
)
LabMD, Inc.,
)
a corporation.
)
_________________________________________ )

In the Matter of

DOCKET NO. 9357
PUBLIC

FINAL ORDER
The Commission has heard this matter upon the appeal of Complaint Counsel from the
Initial Decision of the Administrative Law Judge, and upon briefs and oral argument in support
thereof and in opposition thereto. For the reasons stated in the accompanying opinion of the
Commission, the Commission has concluded that LabMD’s data security practices were
unreasonable and constitute an unfair act or practice that violates Section 5 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act. The Commission has therefore determined to vacate the Initial Decision and
issue the following order:
ORDER
DEFINITIONS
For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:
1.

“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
15 U.S.C. § 44.

2.

Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean LabMD, Inc., and its successors
and assigns.

3.

“Affected Individual” shall mean any consumer whose personal information LabMD has
reason to believe was, or could have been, accessible to unauthorized persons before
July 28, 2016, including, but not limited to, consumers listed in the Insurance File and
other documents available to a peer-to-peer file sharing network, but excluding
consumers whom LabMD has notified, before July 28, 2016, of a data security breach.

4.

“Insurance File” shall mean the file containing personal information about approximately
9,300 consumers, including names, dates of birth, Social Security numbers, health
insurance company names and policy numbers, and medical test codes, that was available
to a peer-to-peer file sharing network through a peer-to-peer file sharing application
installed on a computer on respondent’s computer network.

5.

“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or about an
individual consumer including, but not limited to: (a) first and last name; (b) telephone
number; (c) a home or other physical address, including street name and name of city or
town; (d) date of birth; (e) Social Security number; (f) medical record number; (g) bank
routing, account, and check numbers; (h) credit or debit card information, such as account
number; (i) laboratory test result, medical test code, or diagnosis, or clinical history;
(j) health insurance company name and policy number; or (k) a persistent identifier, such
as a customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number.
I.

IT IS ORDERED that the respondent shall, no later than the date this order becomes
final and effective, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive
information security program that is reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality,
and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers by respondent or by any
corporation, subsidiary, division, website, or other device or affiliate owned or controlled by
respondent. Such program, the content and implementation of which must be fully documented
in writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to
respondent’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the
sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers, including:
A.

the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for
the information security program;

B.

the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise
of such information, and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place
to control these risks. At a minimum, this risk assessment should include
consideration of risks in each area of relevant operation, including, but not limited
to: (1) employee training and management; (2) information systems, including
network and software design, information processing, storage, transmission, and
disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks, intrusions, or
other systems failures;

C.

the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks
identified through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the
effectiveness of the safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures;

2

D.

the development and use of reasonable steps to select and retain service providers
capable of appropriately safeguarding personal information they receive from
respondent, and requiring service providers by contract to implement and
maintain appropriate safeguards; and

E.

the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program in
light of the results of the testing and monitoring required by Subpart C, any
material changes to respondent’s operations or business arrangements, or any
other circumstances that respondent knows or has reason to know may have a
material impact on the effectiveness of its information security program.
II.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Part I of this
order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, who uses procedures and standards
generally accepted in the profession. Professionals qualified to prepare such assessments shall
be: a person qualified as a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a
Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a person holding Global Information Assurance
Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a
similarly qualified person or organization approved by the Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580. The
reporting period for the Assessments shall cover: (1) the first one hundred and eighty (180)
days after July 28, 2016, for the initial Assessment, and (2) each two (2) year period thereafter
for twenty (20) years after July 28, 2016, for the biennial Assessments. Each Assessment shall:
A.

set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period;

B.

explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and
complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity
of the personal information collected from or about consumers;

C.

explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the
protections required by Part I of this order; and

D.

certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient
effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality,
and integrity of personal information is protected, and has so operated
throughout the reporting period.

Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies. Respondent shall provide the initial
Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten (10) days after the Assessment has
been prepared. All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be retained by respondent until the
order is terminated and provided to the Associate Director for Enforcement within ten (10) days
of request. Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, the initial
Assessment, and any subsequent Assessments requested, shall be sent by overnight courier (not
3

the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C.
20580, with the subject line In the Matter of LabMD, Inc., FTC Docket No. 9357. Provided,
however, that in lieu of overnight courier, Assessments may be sent by first-class mail, but only
if an electronic version of any such Assessment is contemporaneously sent to the Commission at
Debrief@ftc.gov.
III.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall provide notice to Affected
Individuals and their health insurance companies within 60 days of the date this order becomes
final and effective unless an appropriate notice has already been provided, as follows:
A.

Respondent shall send the notice to each Affected Individual by first class mail,
only after obtaining acknowledgment from the Commission or its staff that the
form and substance of the notice satisfies the provisions of the order. The notice
must be easy to understand and must include:
1.

a brief description of why the notice is being sent, including the
approximate time period of the unauthorized disclosure, the types of
personal information that were or may have been disclosed without
authorization (e.g., insurance information, Social Security numbers, etc.),
and the steps respondent has taken to investigate the unauthorized
disclosure and protect against future unauthorized disclosures;

2.

advice on how Affected Individuals can protect themselves from identity
theft or related harms. Respondent may refer Affected Individuals to the
Commission’s identity theft website (www.ftc.gov/idtheft), advise them to
contact their health care providers or insurance companies if bills don’t
arrive on time or contain irregularities, or to obtain a free copy of their
credit report from www.annualcreditreport.com and monitor it and their
accounts for suspicious activity, or take such other steps as respondent
deems appropriate; and

3.

methods by which Affected Individuals can contact respondent for more
information, including a toll-free number for 90 days after notice to
Affected Individuals, an email address, a website, and mailing address.

B.

Respondent shall send a copy of the notice to each Affected Individual’s health
insurance company by first class mail.

C.

If respondent does not have an Affected Individual’s mailing address in its
possession, it shall make reasonable efforts to find such mailing address, such as
by reviewing online directories, and once found, shall provide the notice
described in Subpart A, above.

4

IV.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain and, upon request, make
available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying:
A.

for a period of five (5) years, a print or electronic copy of each document relating
to compliance, including, but not limited to, notice letters required by Part III of
this order and documents, prepared by or on behalf of respondent, that contradict,
qualify, or call into question respondent’s compliance with this order; and

B.

for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each Assessment
required under Part II of this order, all materials relied upon to prepare the
Assessment, whether prepared by or on behalf of respondent, including, but not
limited to, all plans, reports, studies, reviews, audits, audit trails, policies, training
materials, and assessments, and any other materials relating to respondent’s
compliance with Parts I and II of this order, for the compliance period covered by
such Assessment.
V.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to:
(1) all current and future principals, officers, directors, and managers; (2) all current and future
employees, agents, and representatives having responsibilities relating to the subject matter of
this order; and (3) any business entity resulting from any change in structure set forth in Part VI.
Respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days after the
date this order becomes final and effective, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days
after the person assumes such position or responsibilities. For any business entity resulting from
any change in structure set forth in Part VI, delivery shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the
change in structure.
VI.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least
thirty (30) days prior to any change in respondent that may affect compliance obligations arising
under this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other
action that would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution of a
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the
proposed filing of a bankruptcy petition; or a change in either corporate name or address.
Provided, however, that, with respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which
respondent learns less than thirty (30) days prior to the date such action is to take place,
respondent shall notify the Commission as soon as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge.
Unless otherwise directed by a representative of the Commission, all notices required by this
Part shall be sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate Director for
Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania
Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the Matter of LabMD, Inc., FTC
Docket No. 9357. Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier, notices may be sent by
first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of any such notice is contemporaneously sent to
the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.
5

VII.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent, within sixty (60) days after the date this
order becomes final and effective, shall file with the Commission a true and accurate report, in
writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form of their compliance with this order. Within
ten (10) days of receipt of written notice from a representative of the Commission, they shall
submit additional true and accurate written reports. Unless otherwise directed by a representative
of the Commission in writing, all notices required by this Part shall be emailed to
Debrief@ftc.gov or sent by overnight courier (not the U.S. Postal Service) to the Associate
Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600
Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20580, with the subject line In the Matter of
LabMD, Inc., FTC Docket No. 9357. Provided, however, that in lieu of overnight courier,
notices may be sent by first-class mail, but only if an electronic version of any such notice is
contemporaneously sent to the Commission at Debrief@ftc.gov.
VIII.
This order will terminate on July 28, 2036, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date
that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without an
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever
comes later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:
A.

any Part in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

B.

this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and

C.

this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to
this Part.

Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that each
respondent did not violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not
appealed or upheld on appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Part as though the
complaint had never been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such
complaint is filed and the later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date
such dismissal or ruling is upheld on appeal.
By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary
SEAL:
ISSUED: July 28, 2016

6

