UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSI
584107

COMMISSIONERS:

EDITH RAMIREZ, CHAlRWOMAN
MAUREEN K. OHLHAUSEN

TERRELL MCSWEENY

In the Matter of
LabMD, Inc.
a corporation,
Respondent.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

PUBLIC
Docket No. 9357

RESPONDENT LabMD. INC.'S OPPOSITION TO COMPLAINT COUNSEL'S
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SURREPLY
Respondent LabMD, Inc. ("LabMD") hereby opposes Complaint Counsel's (..CC")
Motion for Leave to File Surrep1y ("CC Motion").
ARGUMENT
I.

A PASSING REMARK EXPRESSING A GOOD-FAITH BELIEF IN A FOOTNOTE DOES NOT
JUSTIFY A SURREPLY

CC primarily seeks to file a surreply because it takes issue with the following isolated
statement in a footnote of LabMD's Reply: "Mr. Sheer's draconian obsession with destroying
LabMD culminated in his importuning Tiversa to provide fraudulent evidence of 'spread'
regarding the 1718 File." 1 See CC Proposed Surreply at 2 (quoting LabMD Reply at I n.2). CC's

1

This is consistent with far more detailed aJlegations set forth in a public (and publicized) Bivens
lawsuit against Mr. Sheer in his individual capacity currently pending in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Columbia. See Compl. i"MJ l , 94-102, LabMD et al. v. Sheer et al., No. 1:15-cv­
02034-TSC, Dkt. 1 (D.D.C. Nov. 20, 2015)(attached as Exhibit A). LabMD's Bivens lawsuit has
received media attention. See, e.g., Joe Van Acker, "LabMD Sues 3 FTC Lawyers Over Data
Security Case," LA w360 (Nov. 24, 2015), http://www.law360.com/articlesl731134flabmd-sues-3­
ftc-lawyers-over-data-security-case. LabMD's Bivens Complaint is also publicly available. See.
e.g., id. CC is evidently aware of this lawsuit. See CC Stay Opposition at 9 n.9.

PUBLIC
Motion and Proposed Surreply should be rejected, because CC misinterprets the foregoing
footnote's passing observation and fails to acknowledge that the record in this case and publicly­
available infonnation justify it. Most importantly, however, CC's Motion fails to explain how this
footnote raises any issue that would justify a surreply under Rule 3.22(d).
Rule 3.22(d) allows for a surreply only where a party wishes to draw the Commission's
attention to "recent important developments or controlling authority that could not have been
raised earlier in the party's.principal brief." While CC may take issue with LabMD'.s word choice,
CC acknowledges in the very filing at issue here that LabMD has made "allegations regarding the
character, motives, and conduct" of Alain Sheer "throughout this litigation." CC Proposed
Surreply at 1. Nor did CC identify any controlling authority that could not have been raised before.
CC's Motion to file a surreply to challenge a footnote has no basis in the Rules, nor does it present
any argument relevant to LabMD's stay application.
Moreover, the record in this case and publicly-available information is replete with facts
justifying the footnote. CC focuses on Mr. Wallace 's testimony alone, mistakenly concluding that
that is the sole reason for LabMD's suspicions. See CC Proposed Surreply at 2-3. Not so.
To be sure, Mr. Wallace' s testimony confinns that which the Commission Opinion
acknowledges: "The ALJ found...that after the meeting between Tiversa and FTC staff in the fall
of 2009, Mr. Boback directed Mr. Wallace to generate false infonnation purporting to show that
the 1718 file had spread .. .." Op. 32 n.84. Mr. Wallace testified that Alain Sheer was present at
this meeting. Tr. 1385- 1388. The AU found Mr. Wallace's testimony credible. IDF 155.
But LabMD is not solely relying on this (which is why Mr. Wallace's testimony is not cited
in support). Likewise, LabMD is not exclusively relying on record evidence (which is why no
record evidence is cited). Rather, LabMD has a good-faith belief that should LabMD choose to

2

PUBLIC

request and should the Court of Appeals allow LabMD to take discovery that it was denied in the
administrative cas~but which may be available now, see 15 U.S.C. § 45(c); FTC v. Std. Oil Co.,
449 U.S. 232, 244-46 (1980)- LabMD would be able to uncover evidence necessary to establish
the full extent of Mr. Sheer's interactions with Tiversa. Put simply, there is evidence to justify
LabMD's good-faith be1iefthat Mr. Sheer did, in fact, "importune"3 Tiversa to provide fraudulent
"spread" evidence, enabling LabMD to prove that assertion with direct evidence.
LabMD .bas already specifically (and publicly} alleged this in great detail in a currently
pending Bivens action against, among others, Mr. Sheer in his individual capacity.4 See Compl.

2

LabMD's Counsel is not suggesting here that other members of CC's trial team were involved
in or aware of conduct LabMD has a good-faith basis to believe occurred in certain Tiversa-FTC
meetings and related phone conversations. This distinction has been drawn elsewhere. For
example, Mr. Sheer is the only member ofCC's trial team who is a defendant in the Bivens action.
3

This would not necessarily have involved an express request and could be implicit. See, e.g.,
Tully v. Del Re, No. OO-C-2829, 2002 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 18840, *9-14 (N.D. IIJ. Oct. I, 2002)
(involving allegations that police officers implicitly importuned infonnant to manufacture false
basis for criminal charge, "making it clear to her (though perhaps without directly saying so) that
they wanted evidence against Tully no matter what she had to do to manufacture it" and then
"knew, or recklessly disregarded, that the information ... [provided by the infonnant] was false").
4

Particularly because the AU quashed LabMD's deposition subpoena to Sheer and effectively
barred LabMD from obtaining discovery on FTC staff's precomplaint investigation, LabMD's
suspicions about Sheer's interactions with Tiversa have not been dispelled. This is no different
whatsoever from LabMD's able counsel in the Bivens lawsuit, who pleaded on information and
belief that Sheer and others "agreed and conspired" that Boback and Tiversa would provide false
evidence of spread. See Compl. ~ l , 94-102, LabMD et al. v. Sheer et al. LabMD was denied
discovery on FTC staff's precomplaint investigation early in the case-well before Mr. Wallace
revealed that CC's case was predicated on false evidence. See Exhibit B (ALI orders barring
discovery into pre-complaint investigation). The AU found that "limiting Respondent's
discovery... [in this way] does not prejudice Respondent's ability to pursue at a later phase of the
case its claim that the Commission's actions in investigating and filing the Complaint were
unlawful." Order Granting Complaint Counsel's Motion to Quash and To Limit Deposition
Subpoenas Served on Commission Attorneys, 7 n.4 (Feb. 25, 2014) (citing Standard Oil., 449 U.S.
at 245-46). This is that later phase of this case.

3

PUBLIC
1ij 1, 94-102, LabMD el al. v. Sheer et al., No. 1:15-cv-02034-TSC, Dkt. l (D.D.C. Nov. 20, 2015)
(attached as Exhibit A). For example, LabMD's Bivens Complaint avers: "On infonnation and
belief, Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer and Boback expressly or tacitly agreed and conspired in 2009
that Boback and Tiversa would provide the FTC false evidence of source and spread." Id. ii 97.
Similarly, it alleges "Sheer knew...CX0019 was fraudulent but proceeded with the evidence
anyway,''5 id.

iJ 146; and, Tiversa committed criminal felony HIPAA violations when it stole and

transferred LabMD's 1718 File to FTC, see id.~" 13-14, 49. .The Bivens Complaint further avers
that Sheer and FTC committed criminal HIP AA violations6 when they knowingly procured the
1718 File, and subsequently bamboozled the Commission into issuing its LabMD Complaint, see

id. ml 106, 133-134; and "[o]n information and belief, Sheer ...misrepresented material facts to the
Commission," id. , 124.
Moreover, questions raised by a congressional report addressing, inter a/ia, the FTC's
relationship with Tiversa suggest a good-faith basis for the footnote statement. See STAFF OF H.
COMM. ON OVERSIGHT & GOV'T REFORM, l l3TH CONG., TlVERSA, INC.: WHITE
KNIGHT OR HIGH-TECH PROTECTION RACKET (2015) (the "OGR Report"). 7 The OGR
Report found:
•

Boback testified that "the only person I 'know' at the FTC is Mr. Sheer." OGR Report

at 55 n.162.

5

CX0019 is Tiversa's fabricated "spread" evidence. See IDF146-l54. In 2009, Tiversa/Privacy
Institute produced to Sheer a spreadsheet indicating the 1718 File was found at one IP address:
64.190.82.42; in 2013, Tiversa produced CXOO 19, which lists four completely different IP
addresses at which Tiversa then claimed to have found the 1718 File. Compare CX0307. with
CXOO 19. Sheer relied on CXOO19 anyway. See Tr. 16· l 7.
6

See LabMD FOF at i]1217-220.

7 The

OGR Report is attached as Exhibit 35 to LabMD's Stay Application (RX644).

4

PUBLIC
•

"According to Boback. Sheer contacted him after the July 2009 Oversight hearing to
set up a visit to Tiversa. A second contact occurred when Sheer visited Tiversa in
August 2009." Id. 55.

•

"Boback met with Sheer for the third time in Washington, D.C., after the Privacy
lnstitute responded to the FTC's CID with information it in tum obtained from
Ti versa ...." Id. ("Sheer in particular did not recall meeting with Ti versa in Washington,
D .C." Id. 56.)

•

"FTC told the Committee that it had limited contact with Tiversa....E-mails produced
to the Committee...show a much more cooperative relationship between Tiversa and
the FTC." Id.

•

..Personnel from the FTC's Division of Privacy and Identity Protection told the
Committee that Tiversa's contacts with ... FTC prior to the July 2009 hearing took place
with a different division of. ..FTC. Yet, Alain Sheer was included on e-mails with
Boback requesting infonnation about a recent Tiversa press release and scheduling the

March 5, 2009, conference call[.]" Id. 57.
•

"(I]n the four months leading up to the July 2009 Oversight Committee hearing,

Tiversa employees called Alain Slreer at his FTC office 011 21 occasio11s." Id.
(emphasis added).
•

"Regular phone calls between Tiversa and . .. FTC took place between August 2009,
when Tiversa provided infonnation to .. . FTC, and January 19, 2010, when... FTC sent
letters to nearly all of the companies Tiversa turned over to.. . FTC. D11ri11g these

mo11rlis, Tiversa employees called Alaitr Sheer 34 times .... FTC represented to the

5

PUBLIC
Committee that only a handful of phone calls ever took place ....The phone records
stand in stark contrast to this assessment." Id. 57-58 (emphasis added).
•

"Troublingly, despite Tiversa's close relationship with Lifelock, a company that was
itself the subject of an FTC investigation, Sheer stated that he was unaware of the
relationship between Lifelock and Tiversa before being infonned of it by Committee
staff in a transcribed interview .. .. FTC used Tiversa as tire source of conve11ie11t

infor111atio1111sed to i11itiatee11/orce111e11t actio11s....'' Id. 67 (emphasis added).
•

"Evidence produced to the Committee shows that. . . FTC notified Tiversa of its
investigatory schedule, so that Tiversa knew when the Commission would issue
complaint letters and act accordingly." Id. 71.8

The OGR Report further indicates that LabMD has been denied access to sufficient
infonnation to fully understand Tiversa's relationship with Mr. Sheer.9 For example, it contains
Sections titled:
•

'Tiversa's Relationship with the Federal Trade Commission";

8

Tiversa's former CEO, Robert Boback, has now invoked his Fifth Amendment rights. See
LabMD Stay Application at 4 n.3; Daugherty Deel., Exs. A-B. He is thesecondTiversa operative
to do so in connection with Tiversa's dealings with the FTC regarding the 1718 File. That speaks
for itself. Interestingly, a recent FTC OIG Semiannual Report to Congress states: "Allegation that
the FTC Disseminated False Data The OIG...[was] ask[ed] to investigate alleged collaboration
between the FTC and a company suspected of disseminating false data about data security
breaches. In particular, . . . whether the FTC had used false data in an enforcement action against
another company. The OIG did not substantiate the allegations.. .." FTC, OIG Semiannual Report
10
(Oct.
31,
2015),
to
Congress:
04.01.15-09.30.14,
at
https://www.fie.gov/system/fl les/documents/reports/fiscal-year-2015-second-half/semi 1554.pdf.
The subject(s) of this OIG investigation have not been revealed. Regardless ofwhat the FTC OIG
allegedly found, whether CC "used" Tiversa's false evidence after WalJace's testimony is different
from whether Sheer importuned its creation.
9 OGR had

access to documents, materials, and testimony that LabMD did not. For example, OGR
was able to interview Sheer; LabMD was not, because the AU quashed its subpoena to Sheer.

6

PUBLIC

•

"Tiversa misrepresented the extent of its relationship with the FTC to the Committee";

•

'The FTC misrepresented the extent of its relationship with Tiversa to the Committee";

•

"The FTC failed to question Tiversa's creation of a dubious shell organization, the
Privacy Institute, to funnel information to the FTC"; and

•

"Tiversa manipulated advanced, non-public, knowledge of FTC regulatory actions for
profit."

OGR Report at 2; see id. at 53-72. Cf IDF 100-168 (detailed factual findings on Ti versa and its

role in the FTC investigation and administrative prosecution of LabMD). Should a Court of
Appeals order additional discovery, see 15 U.S.C. § 45(c); Std. Oil Co., 449 U.S. at 244-46, there
is reason to believe that LabMD may obtain direct evidence proving that Mr. Sheer implicitly or
explicitly encouraged Tiversa to provide false evidence against LabMD.
CC's Motion to file a surreply pertaining to a footnote should be denied because it lacks
basis in Rule 3.22(d) and because the footnote has a good-faith basis as supported by the record
and publicly-available infonnation.
II.

LABMD'S SUPPLEMENTAL DECLARATION IS PROPER

CC argues that Mr. Daugherty's Supplemental Declaration is improper because "the
substance of Respondent's evidence regarding Part I compliance costs was not addressed in
Complaint Counsel's Opposition'' to LabMD's stay application. See Proposed Surreply at 3-4.
Based on this factual claim, CC argues that Mr. Daugherty's declaration violates Rule 3.56(c), 16
C.F.R. § 3.56(c), which states that a reply must be "limited to new matters raised by the answer."
See CC Proposed Surreply at 4.

The factual predicate for CC's argument is incorrect. CC's Opposition states:
Respondent contends that establishing and implementing a comprehensive
infonnation security program, as required by Part I ofthe Order, would impose
7

PUBLIC
substantial costs, but provides no factual support for this assertion. First,
Respondent claims that even attempting to adopt a comprehensive information
security program would require consulting with and paying Information
Technology ("IT') professionals and attorneys. Daugherty Deel. ir 22(a)(iv).
However, Respondent has failed to q1ta111ify or otherwise provide any specific facts
regarding the costs associated with these activities. In light of the limited nature
and scope ofRespondent 's current operations, the Commission cannol presume,
without appropriate quantification and supporting evidence, that such expenses
would be substantial.
CC Stay Opposition at 10 (emphasis added).
Mr. Daugherty's Supplemental Declaration primarily addressed the foregoing statements,
which CC made in its Opposition regarding LabMD's alleged inability to adequately substantiate
its estimates of compliance costs associated with Part I of the Fina) Order. See Supp. Daugherty
Deel.

TV 2, 5-10.

Therefore, it is proper because it specifically responds to matters raised by CC's

Stay Opposition. 10 This is true a fortiori because it was CC that apparently implied that LabMD
should (and needed to) provide additional factual support in the fonn of"appropriate quantification
and supporting evidence" 11- which LabMD did. Thus, CC's argument fails.
CONCLUSION
For these reasons, CC's Motion should be DENIED and CC's proposed Surreply should
be STRICK.EN.

10

Mr. Baker's Declaration addresses his data-security qualifications and is part of the record on
review. See 16 C.F.R. § 3.43(i).
11

LabMD submitted sufficient evidence in support of its Stay Application. However, to dispel
any doubt and assuage CC's apparent concern, LabMD provided additional support in its Reply.
Rule 3.56(c) does not bar LabMD from doing this.
8

PUBLIC

Dated: September 21, 2016

Patrick J. ass
Erica L. Marshan
Cause ofAction Institute
1875 Eye Street, NW Suite 800
Washington, DC 20006
Phone: {202) 499-4232
Facsimile: (202) 330-5842
Email: patrick.massari@causeofaction.org
Counsel/or Respondent, LabMD, Inc.

9

PUBLIC
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

COMMISSIONERS:

EDITH RAMIREZ, CHAIRWOMAN
MAUREEN K. 0HLHAUSEN
TERRELL MCSWEENY

In the Matter of
LabMD, Inc.
a corporation,

Respondent.

)
)
}
)
)
)
)

PUBLIC
Docket No. 9357

[PROPOSED I ORDER DENYING COMPLAINT COUNSEL'S MOTION FOR LEAVE
TO FILE SURREPLY
Having considered Complaint Counsel 's Motion for Leave to File Surreply and all
supporting and opposition papers,

IT IS ORDERED that Complaint Counsel's Motion for Leave to File a Surreply is DENIED and
that Complaint Counsel's proposed Surreply is hereby STRICKEN FROM THE RECORD.

ORDERED:

By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary
SEAL ISSUED:

10

PUBLIC
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on September 21, 2016, I caused to be filed the foregoing document
electronically through the Office of the Secretary's FTC E-filing system, which will send an
electronic notification of such filing to the Office of the Secretary:
Donald S. Clark, Esq.

Secretary
Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Rm. H-113
Washington, DC 20580

I also certify that I delivered via hand delivery and electronic mail copies of the foregoing
document to:
The Honorable D. Michael Chappell
Chief Administrative Law Judge
Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Rm. H-110
Washington, DC 20580
I further certify that I delivered via electronic mail a copy of the foregoing document to:

Alain Sheer, Esq.
Laura Riposo Van Druff, Esq.
Megan Cox, Esq.

Ryan Mehm, Esq.
John Krebs, Esq.
Jarad Brown, Esq.
Division of Privacy and Identity Protection
Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW
Room CC-8232
Washington, DC 20580

Dated: September 21, 2016

11

PUBLIC
CERTIFICATE OF ELECTRONIC FILING
I certify that the electronic copy sent to the Secretary of the Commission is a true and
correct copy of the paper original and that I possess a paper original of the signed document that
is available for review by the parties and the adjudicator.

Dated: September 21, 2016

12

PUBLIC

EXHIBIT A

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 1of42

PUBLIC

~THE

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLU!\IBIA

MICHAEL J. DAUGHERTY

and
LABMD, INC.

Plaintiffs,
V.

ALAIN H. SHEER
(in his individual capacity)

and
RUTH T. YODAIKEN

and
CARL H. SETTLEMYER Ill
(in his individual capacity)

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

and
DOES 1-10
(in their individual capacities).
Defendants.

)
)
)
)
)

)
)

Civil Action No.

JURY TRIAL DEMANDED

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 2 of 42

PUBLIC

COMPLAINT AND DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL
Plaintiffs Michael J. Daugherty (“Daugherty”) and LabMD, Inc. (“LabMD”)
(collectively, Daugherty and LabMD are referred to as “Plaintiffs”), by and through counsel,
bring this action against Defendants Alain H. Sheer (“Sheer”) in his individual capacity; Ruth T.
Yodaiken (“Yodaiken”) in her individual capacity; Carl H. Settlemyer, III (“Settlemyer”) in his
individual capacity; and Does 1-10, in their individual capacities (collectively, Sheer, Yodaiken,
Settlemyer and Does 1-10 are referred to as “Federal Defendants”), and allege the following:
NATURE OF THE CASE
1.

This Bivens action is based on an FTC investigation and prosecution fought so

aggressively, abusively, unethically and illegally by FTC attorneys Sheer, Yodaiken and
Settlemyer that they put a small cancer-detection firm in Atlanta, Georgia out of business. They
did so without any incriminating evidence and by withholding exculpatory evidence not only
from the targets of their investigation but also from responsible members of the FTC staff and
FTC Commissioners who, based on the defendants lies and omissions, granted them authority to
proceed with their illegal and unconstitutional pursuits. Every step of the way, the defendant
FTC attorneys supported their actions with lies, thievery and testimony from a private company,
Tiversa, whose business model was based on convincing companies to pay them to “recover”
files that, in truth, they hacked from computers all over the world. The defendant FTC attorneys
here knew or should have known from the very start of their investigation that their evidence and
their arguments about unfair practices and impending consumer harm were fictional. These
defendants gathered and relied upon stolen property, perjured testimony, documents from a sham
organization and a company now known for stealing documents and lying about there
whereabouts, all in the alleged interest of protecting consumers from unfair practices.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 3 of 42

PUBLIC

PARTIES
2.

Daugherty, a resident and citizen of the state of Georgia, is over 18 years of age.

3.

LabMD is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state of

Georgia. Its principal place of business is located in Fulton County, Georgia. Daugherty is the
sole owner of LabMD and is its president and chief executive officer.
4.

Sheer is a resident and citizen of the state of Maryland, is over 18 years of age and

can be served with process at

, or wherever he

may be found. At all times relevant to this Complaint, Sheer has been an attorney employed by
the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”).
5.

Yodaiken is a resident and citizen of the state of Maryland, is over 18 years of age

and can be served with process at

, or wherever she may

be found. At all times relevant to this Complaint, Yodaiken has been an attorney employed by
the FTC.
6.

Settlemyer is a resident and citizen of the state of Virginia, is over 18 years of age

and can be served with process at

, or wherever he may be

found. At all times relevant to this Complaint, Settlemyer has been an attorney employed by the
FTC.
JURISDICTION AND VENUE
7.

This Court has jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1331 and 28 U.S.C. § 1343. This

case arises under the Constitution and laws of the United States of America. Daugherty and
LabMD bring this action for damages against Federal Defendants named in their individual
capacities, under Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents of Federal Bureau of Narcotics, 403
U.S. 388 (1971).

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 4 of 42

8.

PUBLIC

This Court has personal jurisdiction over the Federal Defendants because a

substantial portion of the events or omissions giving rise to Plaintiffs’ claims occurred in this
District.
9.

Venue is proper in this District and this Division pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §

1391.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
10.

From at least 2001 through approximately January 2014, LabMD operated as a

small, medical services company providing doctors with cancer-detection services.
11.

In connection with its testing and other services, LabMD collected and maintained

certain personal information on thousands of patients (“Personal Information”). For purposes of
this Complaint, Personal Information means “individually identifiable information from or about
an individual consumer including, but not limited to: (a) first and last name; (b) telephone
number; (c) a home or other physical address, including street name and name of city or town;
(d) date of birth; (e) Social Security number; (f) medical record number; (g) bank routing,
account, and check numbers; (h) credit or debit card information, such as account number; (i)
laboratory test result, medical test code, or diagnosis, or clinical history; (j) health insurance
company name and policy number; or (k) a persistent identifier, such as a customer number held
in a “cookie” or processor serial number.” Personally Identifiable Information (“PII”) is a subset
of the data in Personal Information, including a person’s name, address, date of birth, Social
Security number, credit card and banking information, and drivers’ license number.
12.

Personal Information collected and maintained by LabMD includes information

protected by privacy requirements set forth in the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”). LabMD has at all times complied with HIPAA.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 5 of 42

13.

PUBLIC

Various state and federal laws prohibit the unauthorized taking, possession and

disclosure of PII and Personal Information. See, e.g., 42 U.S.C. § 1320d-6(a)(2) (criminal
violations for obtaining individually identifiable health information relating to an individual
and/or disclosing individually identifiable health information to another person);
14.

Various state and federal laws prohibit hacking of computers to obtain

information and documentation, including PII and Personal Information. See, e.g., O.C.G.A.
§16-9- 93 (criminal violations for computer theft, computer trespass, computer invasion of
privacy, or computer forgery).
15.

Tiversa Holding Corp. (“Tiversa”) is a privately held company headquartered in

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Tiversa was founded by Robert Boback (“Boback”) and Samuel
Hopkins (“Hopkins”) in January 2004.
16.

Hopkins, a high-school dropout, left Tiversa in 2011.

17.

Prior to joining Tiversa, Boback was a practicing chiropractor who dabbled in

various activities such as buying and selling residential properties and selling cars on eBay.
18.

At all times relevant to this Complaint, Boback has been the chief executive

officer of Tiversa.
Tiversa
19.

Tiversa is a data security company that offers breach detection and remediation

services. Tiversa uses a combination of off-the-shelf and proprietary technology purportedly to
search entire peer-to-peer networks for documents of interest to its customers or potential
customers and downloads the documents it finds into its data storage devices. Tiversa has
claimed that it “provides P2P intelligence services to corporations, government agencies and

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 6 of 42

PUBLIC

individuals based on patented technologies that can monitor over 550 million users issuing 1.8
billion searches a day.”
20.

Tiversa searches for and downloads data from peer-to-peer networks. The data is

kept in what is referred to as Tiversa’s “data store” (“Data Store”). The Data Store contains files
that Tiversa has downloaded from peer-to-peer networks. The Data Store also contains
information as to where the downloaded files had been located.
21.

Tiversa does not seek permission to access computers or download files from

computer workstations, even though it knows that much of what it finds and downloads to its
Data Store are files that were never intended to be shared.
22.

Tiversa’s business model is to capitalize on finding and downloading files that

were never intended to be shared. Thus, Tiversa is particularly interested in finding and
downloading items such as individual and corporate tax returns, medical records, social security
numbers, credit card numbers, passwords, employment records, trade secrets, privileged and
protected information, military and other state secrets, PII and Personal Information. Tiversa
collects such files without permission or authority, even though there are state and federal laws
designed to prevent this kind of information gathering and storage.
23.

Tiversa purports to be a white knight in the world of inadvertent file sharing.

24.

The amount of inadvertently shared files searched for, located and stored by

Tiversa is massive.
25.

Boback has testified to Congress that Tiversa downloads “the equivalent of the

Library of Congress every three days.”
26.

Tiversa claims to be able to see entire peer-to-peer networks, instead of a smaller

subset as seen by an individual user.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 7 of 42

27.

PUBLIC

There are two ways for data to get into Tiversa’s Data Store: (1) Tiversa’s

proprietary program, Eagle Vision, automatically downloads files returned from Tiversa’s
automated searches and (2) Tiversa’s forensic analysts insert data that the analysts find using a
stand-alone computer running a peer-to-peer client (e.g., LimeWire).
28.

In Tiversa’s searches for exposed files on peer-to-peer networks, Tiversa records

in its Data Store (1) the information disclosed, (2) the IP address of the disclosing computer, (3)
metadata from the file, (4) the identity of the disclosing company and (5) when the information
was disclosed. Much of this information is included on spreadsheets that Tiversa analysts update
several times a day. The purpose of the spreadsheets is so that Boback and the Tiversa sales
force can make sales calls to the affected companies.
29.

When contacting the affected company to sell services, Tiversa’s practice was to

not reveal the source of the information and to tell the potential customer that Tiversa had not
recorded the IP information. Tiversa would provide the found documents to the potential
customer only after stripping the IP address and removing any metadata relating to the disclosure
source, while keeping a separate set of the files that included disclosure source information.
30.

Tiversa monetizes information it obtains from peer-to-peer networks either by

selling a monitoring contract (pursuant to which Tiversa would search for certain key words for a
period of time), or by selling a “one-off” service (which would remediate just the existing
disclosure problem). Tiversa typically creates an “incident response” for its “one-off” services.
31.

Tiversa often fabricates information and documentation regarding the disclosing

source of files it finds on peer-to-peer networks. If a potential customer would not purchase
Tiversa’s services, Tiversa would often attempt to monetize peer-to-peer network findings by

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 8 of 42

PUBLIC

notifying an existing Tiversa customer of the source of the customer’s information and advising
the existing customer to contact Tiversa’s target.
32.

When a company refused to purchase Tiversa’s services, Boback would often tell

his analysts, in reference to that company, to the effect of, “you think you have a problem now,
you just wait.” In many of these situations, Boback directed Tiversa analysts to input
information into Tiversa’s Data Store so as to make that company’s information “proliferate”
and thereby make it appear, fraudulently, that a file had “spread” to multiple places. Tiversa
would then use this “evidence” to follow up with a company to try again to get the company to
purchase Tiversa’s remediation services.
33.

For companies that initially refused to purchase Tiversa’s services, Tiversa would

often follow up with the target by stating, fraudulently, that the disclosed document had spread to
additional IP addresses, including IP addresses of known “bad actors” or identity thieves. In
such cases, Tiversa’s analysts would alter or create source and spread information in the Data
Store to make it appear that Tiversa had located and downloaded the file from the IP address of a
known bad actor and that files had proliferated on peer-to-peer networks.
34.

Starting as early as 2006, Tiversa created an Advisory Board whose members

came to include General Wesley K. Clark (retired general of the United States Army; former
candidate for President of the United States of America); Maynard Webb (former chief operating
officer for eBay); Dr. Larry Ponemon (chairman and founder of the Ponemon Institute); Howard
Schmidt (former Chief Security Strategist for the U.S. CERT Partners Program for the National
Cyber Security Division, Department of Homeland Security and former Vice President and Chief
Information Security Officer and Chief Security Strategist for eBay); Michael Dearing (former
Senior Vice President & General Merchandise Manager for eBay); Thomas Keeven (former Vice

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 9 of 42

PUBLIC

President of Infrastructure, Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Architecture for
eBay); Lynn Reedy (former Chief Technical Officer and Senior Vice President of Product &
Technology for eBay) and Patrick Gross (a founder and former chairman of the executive
committee of American Management Systems, Inc.).
35.

On July 24, 2007, Boback testified in a hearing before the U.S. House of

Representatives Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (the “Oversight Committee”)
on the topic of inadvertent file sharing over peer-to-peer networks.
36.

Tiversa Advisory Board member Wesley Clark also testified at that hearing,

immediately after Boback. Among other statements, General Clark testified as follows:
I want to just disclose now that I am an advisor to Tiversa, and in that role I do have a
small equity stake in Tiversa. But my engagement here has just opened my eyes to
activities that I think, if you saw the scope of the risk, I think you would agree that it is
just totally unacceptable. The American people would be outraged if they were aware of
what is inadvertently shared by Government agencies on P2P networks. They would
demand solutions.
As I was preparing for the testimony, I asked Mr. Boback to search for anything marked
classified secret, or secret no-foreign. So he pulled up over 200 classified documents in a
few hours running his search engine. These documents were everything from in sums of
what is going on in Iraq to contractor data on radio frequency information to defeat
improvised explosive devices. This material was all secret, it was all legitimate.
Even more alarming, I got a call from Bob Boback on Wednesday night that he had
found on the peer-to-peer net the entire Pentagon’s secret backbone network
infrastructure diagram, including the server and IP addresses, with password transcripts
for Pentagon’s secret network servers, the Department of Defense employees’ contact
information, secure sockets layer instructions, and certificates allowing access to the
disclosing contractors’ IT systems, and ironically, a letter from OMB which explicitly
talks about the risks associated with P2P file-sharing networks. So I called the Office of
the Secretary of Defense. I got the right people involved. They had some meetings on it
this. It turns out that a woman with top-secret clearance working for a contractor on her
home computer, she did have LimeWire, and somehow, I guess, she had taken some
material home to work on it, and so all this was out there.
But these two examples illustrate the risks that are out there. Peer-to-peer file sharing is a
wonderful tool. It is going to be a continuing part of the economy. It is a way that
successfully moves large volumes of data, and that is not going to go away, but it has to

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 10 of 42
PUBLIC

be regulated and people have to be warned about the risks, and especially our
Government agencies - our National Security Agency, DOD, people that run the Sipranet
- have to take the appropriate precautions, because we can’t have this kind of information
bleeding out over the peer-to-peer network.
37.

Boback and General Clark’s testimonies caught members of Congress and several

federal agencies off guard. Tiversa, Boback and General Clark appeared to have more insight,
more actual examples, more evidence, more technological capabilities, more expertise and more
awareness of the problems of inadvertent file sharing on peer-to-peer networks than those in the
federal government who believed this issue was their responsibility, including the Federal Trade
Commission.
Tiversa and the FTC Agree to Cooperate
38.

Boback, Settlemyer and other FTC staff members began communicating

approximately two months after the 2007 Congressional hearing on inadvertent file sharing.
These communications were as frequent as weekly during some periods. The subject matter of
these communications was information available on peer-to-peer networks.
39.

Boback believed he could capitalize on Tiversa’s newfound arrangement with the

FTC by reporting to the FTC companies that refused Tiversa’s services, the expected result of
which was that those companies would respond to FTC inquiries by hiring Tiversa.
40.

The FTC intended to capitalize on its relationship with Tiversa by using Tiversa’s

technological capabilities and expertise to identify targets for investigations and prosecutions and
by using evidence obtained from Tiversa to prosecute.
41.

In the fall of 2007 or winter of 2007/2008, members of the FTC staff visited

Boback at Tiversa’s facility in Pennsylvania. Following that meeting, the FTC began requesting
that Tiversa provide information to the FTC. Tiversa, Settlemyer and other members of the FTC

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 11 of 42
PUBLIC

staff essentially agreed that, in the world of cybersecurity, Tiversa would be the FTC’s stalking
horse.
Peer-to Peer Networks
42.

In peer-to-peer networks, computer files (e.g., music, videos and pictures) can be

shared directly between computers connected to one another via the internet.
43.

Peer-to-peer file-sharing applications (e.g., LimeWire) enable one computer user

to make a request to search for all files that have been made available for sharing by another
computer user, so long as the other computer is also using the file-sharing application.
44.

Users of peer-to-peer networks perform searches using terms related to the

particular file they hope to find and receive a list of possible matches. The user then chooses a
file they want to download from the list.
45.

The search capabilities on peer-to-peer networks are limited. For example, peer-

to-peer networks are only capable of searching for filenames. These networks do not have the
capability for users to search for files using words or other data contained in the files that have
been made available for sharing by other users. In addition, search terms must be precise. With
LimeWire, for example, a user searching for files with the search terms “insurance” and “aging”
would not find any insurance aging files with the filename “insuranceaging.”
46.

A document being “shared” or “made available for sharing” on a peer-to-peer

network is available to be downloaded by another computer user on the same peer-to-peer
network. The fact that a document is being shared, or made available for sharing does not mean
the document has been “downloaded” for viewing or is immediately viewable. The contents of a
file that is available for sharing are not disclosed until the file is downloaded and viewed by the
requesting user.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 12 of 42
PUBLIC

47.

In many cases, files that are “shared” on a peer-to-peer network are shared

without the knowledge of the user of a computer that has a file sharing application on it. The
user may not even know that the computer he or she is using has a file sharing application. Such
situations are often referred to as “inadvertent file sharing via P2P networks.” Considerable
research has been done and papers written on the topic. See, e.g., “Filesharing Programs and
“Technological Features to Induce Users to Share,”” A Report to the United States Patent and
Trademark Office from the Office of International Relations, Prepared by Thomas D. Sydnor II,
John Knight and Lee A. Hollaar (November 2006).
Tiversa’s Theft of LabMD’s Property
48.

In May 2008, Tiversa targeted LabMD as a potential customer. Tiversa contacted

LabMD to inform it that a LabMD file containing Personal Information was available through
LimeWire. This particular file was a 1,718-page PDF document containing Personal
Information on approximately 9,300 patients (the “1718 File”). The 1718 File was victim of
inadvertent file sharing.
49.

In truth, Tiversa had, without any authority, accessed and downloaded (“hacked”)

the 1718 File from a LabMD billing computer in Atlanta, Georgia on February 25, 2008.
Tiversa’s unauthorized download and retention of Personal Information was a violation of
several state and federal crimes.
50.

The filename on the document Tiversa hacked was

“insuranceaging_6.05.071.pdf”. The chance that anyone would ever have searched for or found
the 1718 file was extremely remote. In order for Tiversa to receive a search result for the
“insuranceaging_6.05.071.pdf” file, it would have to have searched for the document using the
highly unusual search terms “insuranceaging” or “6.05.071”.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 13 of 42
PUBLIC

51.

Only Tiversa, with its “patented technologies that can monitor over 550 million

users issuing 1.8 billion searches a day” and its cadre of highly experienced professional hackers,
would ever have found the 1718 File.
Tiversa’s Lies to LabMD
52.

Immediately after Tiversa’s call, LabMD investigated and determined that the

1718 File was inadvertently available because, unbeknownst to LabMD, LimeWire was installed
on a LabMD billing computer. LabMD determined within minutes that LimeWire was installed
on only one of its computers and removed the LimeWire application right away.
53.

As part of LabMD’s investigation regarding the 1718 File, LabMD employees

constantly searched peer-to-peer networks for the 1718 File until 2013. Those employees were
never able to find the 1718 file on any peer-to-peer network.
54.

Soon after Tiversa first contacted LabMD in May 2008, it began a series of efforts

to convince LabMD to purchase its remediation services. These efforts continued from mid-May
through mid-July 2008.
55.

During these sales efforts, Tiversa told LabMD that its patented technology and

forensic experts had determined that the 1718 File was being searched for on peer-to-peer
networks and that the 1718 File had spread across peer-to-peer networks. Except to the extent
Tiversa observed LabMD employees searching for the 1718 file, these were lies.
56.
•

On May 13, 2008, a Tiversa analyst specifically told LabMD the following:

“our system shows a record of continued availability for sporadic periods over the past
several months but we did not attempt to download it again.”

•

“The system did not auto-record the IP, unfortunately, most likely due to the little amount
of criteria indexed against the DSP. “

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 14 of 42
PUBLIC

•

“The actual source IP address in the data store logs [is] not readily available at this point.
If it is there, I should be able to get it but it would take some time.”

These were lies.
57.

On May 22, 2008, Tiversa told LabMD, “We have continued to see people

searching for the file in question on the P2P network by searching precisely for the exact file
name of the file in question. They may or may not have been successful in downloading the file
however.” Except to the extent Tiversa observed LabMD employees searching for the 1718 file,
these were lies.
58.

On July 15, 2008, Tiversa told LabMD that it “continued to see individuals

searching for and downloading copies of the [1718 File].” This was a lie. No one was
downloading copies of the 1718 File because it was not available for sharing on any peer-to-peer
network.
59.

On July 22, 2008, LabMD instructed Tiversa to direct any further

communications to LabMD’s lawyer.
60.

Tiversa’s sales tactics became even more aggressive. On November 21, 2008,

Jim Cook, one of Tiversa’s attorneys, told an attorney for LabMD that he had been talking to the
FTC about LabMD. Cook justified his actions by claiming that Tiversa was concerned about
being sued for having knowledge of the “breach” and not reporting it as required by law. This
was a lie. Tiversa had no such concern.
61.

When Boback learned that Mike Daugherty at LabMD ultimately refused to do

business with Tiversa, Boback said to one of Tiversa’s analysts, “f--- him, make sure he’s at the
top of the list.” The “list” was a spreadsheet of companies Tiversa would soon give to the FTC.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 15 of 42
PUBLIC

Tiversa’s Lies to CIGNA
62.

One of the insurance companies listed in the 1718 file was CIGNA Health

Insurance (“CIGNA”). In 2008, CIGNA was a Tiversa customer.
63.

In April 2008, Tiversa sent an incident report to CIGNA stating that it had found a

file on a peer-to-peer network with Personal Information on CIGNA insureds. Tiversa stated,
“[a]fter reviewing the IP address resolution results, meta-data and other files, Tiversa believes it
is likely that LabMD near Atlanta, Georgia is the disclosing source.” This was not a lie.
64.

In a report dated August 12, 2008, however, Tiversa told CIGNA, “The [1718

File], as well as some of the files not related to CIGNA, have been observed by Tiversa at
additional IP addresses on the P2P.” This was a lie.
65.

Tiversa also told CIGNA in the August 12, 2008 report that (1) it had found the

1718 File in San Diego, CA at IP address 68.8.250.203 (designated “Proliferation Point #2”) and
(2) “other files present at Proliferation Point #2 suggest that this source could be an Information
Concentrator.” These were lies.
The FTC Strengthens its Alliance with Tiversa
66.

Communications between Tiversa and the FTC continued through the winter and

spring of 2009. Settlemyer introduced Sheer to Boback on or about March 4, 2009.
67.

On information and belief, Settlemyer or Sheer (or both) introduced Yodaiken to

Boback and others at Tiversa in the spring of 2009.
68.

Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer knew about the 1718 File in the spring of 2009.

69.

Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer knew or should have learned in the spring of

2009 that the filename of the 1718 file was “insuranceaging_6.05.071.pdf”.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 16 of 42
PUBLIC

70.

Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer learned or should have learned in the spring of

2009 that the disclosing source of the 1718 File was an IP address for LabMD in Atlanta,
Georgia.
71.

Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer learned or should have learned in the spring of

2009 that the only source of the 1718 File was an IP address for LabMD in Atlanta, Georgia.
72.

Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer learned or should have learned in the spring of

2009 that the 1718 File had not proliferated or spread anywhere on any peer-to-peer network.
The List
73.

By the spring of 2009, Tiversa had developed a spreadsheet of approximately 100

companies that, according to Tiversa, had exposed Personal Information (the “List”). The
companies on the List were companies to which Tiversa had tried but failed to sell Tiversa’s
remediation services. Tiversa scrubbed the List of the names of all existing or prospective
Tiversa customers. As dictated by Boback, LabMD was included and placed near the top of the
List.
74.

Tiversa would later claim that it included several of its own customers on the List.

This was a lie.
FTC Procedures and Rules of Practice
75.

The behavior of FTC employees is mandated by the FTC’s Procedures and Rules

of Practice (“PRP”) – the official rules of the agency.
76.

“Commission investigations” under the PRP are inquiries conducted by a

“Commission investigator” for the purpose of ascertaining whether any person is or has been
engaged in any unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce or in any antitrust
violations.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 17 of 42
PUBLIC

77.

Under the PRP, the term “Commission investigator” means any attorney or

investigator employed by the Commission who is charged with the duty of enforcing or carrying
into effect any provisions relating to unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting
commerce or any provisions relating to antitrust violations.
78.

At all times relevant to this Complaint, Defendants Sheer, Yodaiken and

Settlemyer were Commission investigators.
79.

The PRP authorizes the FTC to utilize civil investigative demands (“CIDs”) in

certain limited circumstances. The FTC does not have the authority to issue CIDs in the absence
of an investigation.
80.

The PRP mandates that each CID shall state the nature of the conduct constituting

the alleged violation that is under investigation and the provision of law applicable to such
violation.
81.

Under the PRP, the production of documentary material in response to CIDs

“shall be made under a sworn certificate, in such form as the demand designates, by the person,
if a natural person, to whom the demand is directed or, if not a natural person, by any person
having knowledge of the facts and circumstances relating to such production, to the effect that all
of the documentary material required by the demand and in the possession, custody, or control of
the person to whom the demand is directed has been produced and made available to the
custodian.”
The Privacy Institute
82.

In the spring and summer of 2009, Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer came to learn

or should have come to learn that Boback and others at Tiversa were not honest or trustworthy.
Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer knew or had reason to know that Tiversa’s internal documents

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 18 of 42
PUBLIC

would prove that Boback and others at Tiversa could not be trusted and further knew or had
reason to know that Tiversa’s internal documents were likely to disprove allegations Tiversa
would make about the source and spread of documents it “found” on peer-to-peer networks.
Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer also knew or had reason to know that Tiversa analysts would
alter information in the Data Store to make it appear that Tiversa had located and downloaded
files from the IP addresses of known identity thieves and further knew or had reason to believe
that Tiversa analysts would create information in the Data Store as evidence of spread where, in
fact, no spread had ever occurred.
83.

Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer knew or had reason to know that it would be

extremely difficult, if not impossible, for companies the FTC investigated and prosecuted to
disprove Tiversa’s “evidence” of source and spread, unless those companies had access to
Tiversa’s internal documents.
84.

Neither Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer nor Boback wanted Tiversa to produce to

the FTC any internal documents that would disprove Tiversa’s evidence of source and spread.
Specifically, Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer and Boback did not want the FTC to use a compulsory
process to obligate Tiversa to produce anything. To keep Tiversa from being legally obligated to
produce any documents and to give Boback and Tiversa the freedom to produce whatever they
wanted to the FTC, Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer, Boback and others at Tiversa agreed that (1)
Boback and Tiversa would create a shell company, (2) the FTC would issue a CID to the shell
company instead of Tiversa, (3) Boback and Tiversa would “give” the shell company documents
of their choosing, including a limited number of documents that supposedly contained
incriminating evidence on future targets of FTC investigations and enforcement actions and (4)
Boback and Tiversa could withhold from production whatever they wanted.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 19 of 42
PUBLIC

85.

The shell company, created on June 3, 2009, was named “The Privacy Institute.”

86.

The Privacy Institute had no assets or employees. It was not legally related to

Tiversa. Tiversa had no legal obligation to provide anything to The Privacy Institute and The
Privacy Institute had no legal requirement to obtain anything from Tiversa.
87.

By law, Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer needed an FTC Commissioner to

approve and sign the CID that would be served on The Privacy Institute on or about July 10,
2009.
88.

By law, the CID could only issue in connection with an FTC investigation.

89.

Tiversa was never the target of an FTC investigation or enforcement action.

90.

The Privacy Institute was never the target of an FTC investigation or enforcement

91.

Sheer and Yodaiken knew that the FTC was not authorized to issue CIDs with

action.

nothing more than a blanket request and knew that no FTC Commissioner was likely to sign such
a CID. To induce an FTC Commissioner to sign and authorize a CID to be served on The
Privacy Institute (the “PI CID”), Sheer and Yodaiken included in the proposed PI CID requests
related to two companies already under investigation by the FTC – Rite-Aid and Walgreens.
Sheer and Yodaiken also included a blanket request written to capture information on companies
like LabMD that were not under investigation by the FTC. Sheer and Yodaiken knew this was
improper, if not illegal, and knew that The Privacy Institute was just a façade. Sheer and
Yodaiken were not concerned about the consequences of these actions because they knew that
neither Tiversa nor The Privacy Institute would ever complain.
92.

The FTC Commissioner who authorized and signed the PI CID would not have

done so had he been told that Sheer and Yodaiken had plans to investigate parties other than

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 20 of 42
PUBLIC

Rite-Aid and Walgreens that, like LabMD, had (1) already resolved any disclosure issues, (2) de
minimus disclosures, (3) no disclosures, (4) no complaining witness, and (5) no originating
source other than the company that would become the target of Sheer and Yodaiken’s
investigations.
93.

Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer knew that The Privacy Institute had no assets, no

employees, no physical location and no documents or files. The Federal Defendants nevertheless
served the PI CID on The Privacy Institute on or about July 10, 2009. Because The Privacy
Institute had no documents, files or employees, the PI CID had no force of law. As a result,
neither Tiversa nor The Privacy Institute had any obligation to produce anything to the FTC.
Instead, Tiversa was free to provide whatever it wanted to the FTC.
94.

In the fall of 2009, Boback and a Tiversa forensic analyst name Richard E.

Wallace met in Washington, D.C. with Sheer, Yodaiken and/or other members of the FTC staff
to discuss Tiversa’s response to the CID served on The Privacy Institute. On information and
belief, the FTC Staff expressed concerns that it did not have enough evidence to investigate
companies where the only disclosing source was the company the FTC wanted to pursue.
95.

On the return trip from Boback and Wallace’s meeting with the FTC, Boback told

Wallace that Tiversa needed to increase the apparent “spread” of the files identified on the List.
Wallace was to search for the files again to see if they were available at IP addresses in addition
to the address in the Data Store, and that if the files were not, in fact, available at any additional
IP addresses, Wallace was told to create or alter data in the Data Store to make it appear that the
files were available at additional IP addresses.
96.

On information and belief, Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer and Boback expressly or

tacitly agreed and conspired in 2009 that Boback and Tiversa would provide whatever evidence

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 21 of 42
PUBLIC

the FTC needed in its investigation and enforcement of companies on the List, even if the
evidence was fraudulent. In so doing, Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer conspired to deprive
LabMD and Daugherty of their constitutional rights. LabMD and Daugherty were deprived of
their constitutional rights as a result of this conspiracy.
97.

On information and belief, Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer and Boback expressly or

tacitly agreed and conspired in 2009 that Boback and Tiversa would provide the FTC false
evidence of source and spread. In so doing, Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer conspired to
deprive LabMD and Daugherty of their constitutional rights. LabMD and Daugherty were
deprived of their constitutional rights as a result of this conspiracy.
98.

On information and belief, Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer knew or should have

known in 2009 and thereafter that Boback and Tiversa would, upon request for additional
evidence, manufacture and provide false evidence of source and spread. Sheer, Yodaiken and
Settlemyer expressly or implicitly conspired to allow this to happen and thereby deprived
LabMD and Daugherty of their constitutional rights.
99.

On information and belief, Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer knew or should have

known in 2009 and thereafter that Boback and others at Tiversa had and would provide false
sworn testimony concerning source and spread. Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer expressly or
implicitly conspired to allow this to happen and thereby deprived LabMD and Daugherty of their
constitutional rights.
100.

On information and belief, Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer and Boback expressly or

tacitly agreed and conspired in 2009 that Boback and Tiversa would withhold from production to
the FTC and third parties documents and things that were exculpatory to LabMD and Daugherty.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 22 of 42
PUBLIC

Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer expressly or implicitly conspired to allow this to happen and
thereby deprived LabMD and Daugherty of their constitutional rights.
101.

On information and belief, Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer, Boback and Tiversa

expressly or tacitly agreed and conspired in 2009 to hurt, if not destroy, LabMD and to deprive
Daugherty of his livelihood and property. Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer expressly or
implicitly conspired to make this happen and thereby deprived LabMD and Daugherty of their
constitutional rights.
102.

Boback wanted revenge. Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer wanted to make an

example of LabMD. They believed, or should have known, that LabMD did not have the
resources to sustain the kind of investigation they had in store for LabMD and Daugherty.
103.

On July 27, 2009, Boback testified to the Oversight Committee on the topic of

inadvertent file sharing for a second time. Boback testified that in February of that year,
“Tiversa identified an IP address on the P2P networks, in Tehran, Iran, that possessed highly
sensitive information relating to Marine One [the President’s helicopter]. This information was
disclosed by a defense contractor in June 2008 and was apparently downloaded by an unknown
individual in Iran.” This was a lie. Tiversa never found any files relating to Marine One on a
computer with an IP address in Iran. On information and belief, Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer
knew this was a lie yet failed and refused to disclose their knowledge to responsible individuals
at the FTC or other law enforcement agencies.
104.

In August 2009, Tiversa, under the guise of The Privacy Institute, gave the List to

the FTC. Tiversa also produced a screen shot showing that the disclosing source for the 1718
File was a computer with an IP address for LabMD in Atlanta, GA. Daugherty and LabMD
would not know about this document or Sheer and Yodaiken’s knowledge of it until years later.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 23 of 42
PUBLIC

Sheer and Yodaiken should have but refused to produce this document to Daugherty or LabMD
at anytime during their investigation of Daugherty and LabMD.
105.

Neither Tiversa nor The Privacy Institute ever provided any evidence that the

1718 File had proliferated on a peer-to-peer network. Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer knew this
but, on information and belief, consciously disregarded and failed to disclose these facts to
responsible individuals at the FTC.
106.

Daugherty and LabMD would not learn anything about The Privacy Institute

before Boback’s deposition on November 21, 2013. Until that point in time, neither Daugherty
nor LabMD knew or had reason to know that Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer, in their individual
capacities:
•

were acting outside the scope of their employment;

•

were acting ultra vires;

•

had deceived their superiors and others at the Commission;

•

knew that Boback and Tiversa had committed crimes;

•

were conspiring with Boback and Tiversa to create fraudulent incriminating evidence
against LabMD and Daugherty;

•

were conspiring with Boback and Tiversa to withhold evidence exculpatory to LabMD
and Daugherty;

•

were withholding evidence exculpatory to them; and

•

were explicitly or implicitly conspiring to deprive Plaintiffs of their constitutional rights.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 24 of 42
PUBLIC

The FTC Gives Confidential Information to Boback
107.

At some point before October 6, 2009, Sheer and/or Yodaiken violated FTC rules,

policies, procedures and/or FTC guidance by disclosing to Boback intimate details about the
FTC’s upcoming investigations of the 100 or so companies on the List.
108.

In October 2009, Boback bragged to employees of LifeLock about having inside

knowledge from the FTC. Specifically, Boback told LifeLock on October 26, “the FTC is
preparing the federal cases against 100 or so companies that have breached consumers
information via P2P.” On October 6, Boback told LifeLock, “The FTC letters did not go out yet
so the companies will not know what you will be talking about...yet.”
109.

Boback further explained to LifeLock that the Washington Post planned to

“shame” companies into addressing the problem, and that the upcoming FTC investigations
presented a unique opportunity for LifeLock and Tiversa to profit.
110.

On October 20, 2009, a Tiversa analyst e-mailed Boback the name, resume, and

Facebook profile picture of a House Ethics Committee staffer who would become part of a story
published by the Washington Post nine (9) days later. Boback thereafter told LifeLock “…there
was a breach in House Ethics via 2P2 that the Washington Post will be writing a story about this
week or next….” Boback knew this because Boback gave the information to the Washington
Post.
111.

On information and belief, Boback bragged to Sheer, Yodaiken and Settlemyer

about he and Tiversa being the undisclosed sources for the Washington Post story.
112.

Boback thereafter tried to get the House Ethics Committee to hire Tiversa by

showing the “spread” on the leak.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 25 of 42
PUBLIC

113.

From August 2009 through January 2010, Tiversa employees called Defendant

Sheer at least 34 times.
114.

On December 22, 2009, the White House announced that President Obama

appointed Howard Schmidt to be the President’s new White House Cybersecurity Coordinator.
On information and belief, Schmidt was still a member of Tiversa’s Advisory Board at the time
of his appointment. On information and belief, Schmidt had an equity interest in Tiversa at the
time of his appointment. On information and belief, Schmidt kept his equity interest in Tiversa
during his service as White House Cybersecurity Coordinator. On information and belief, at
Boback’s behest, Schmidt influenced the FTC in general and Sheer in particular, to vigorously
pursue an investigation and enforcement action against LabMD, regardless of the merits of the
pursuit. On information and belief, Sheer told or otherwise indicated to Schmidt that he would.
115.

Soon after the announcement of Schmidt’s appointment, Daugherty received a

letter dated January 19, 2010, from Sheer informing LabMD that the FTC was “conducting a
non-public inquiry into LabMD’s compliance with federal law governing information security.”
The letter states, “According to information we have received, a computer file (or files) from
your computer network is available to users on a peer-to-peer file sharing (“P2P”) network
(hereinafter, “P2P breach”). This was a lie. Sheer knew that neither the 1718 File nor any other
LabMD file was available to anyone on any peer-to-peer network. On information and belief,
Sheer knew from conversations with Boback and others that when Tiversa contacted LabMD in
May 2008, LabMD immediately found and removed the offending software (LimeWire) and
that, thereafter, there was no basis for an inquiry or investigation of any sort.
116.

The FTC’s investigation of LabMD and Daugherty (the “Investigation”)

continued for three and a half years. It was an intrusive and exhaustive, multiyear civil

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 26 of 42
PUBLIC

investigation in which Sheer and Yodaiken issued burdensome voluntary access requests and
civil investigative demands to LabMD, obtained thousands of pages of documents from LabMD
and Daugherty, and deposed, under oath, LabMD principals, causing LabMD’s insurance
carriers to cancel LabMD’s insurance coverage and causing crippling economic hardship and
reputational harm.
117.

LabMD and Daugherty produced thousands of pages of documents, sat for hours

of interviews and met with the FTC on numerous occasions by telephone and in person, only to
be told by Sheer and Yodaiken, time after time, that LabMD’s responses were inadequate.
118.

At no time during the Investigation did Sheer, Yodaiken or Settlemyer disclose

to LabMD the evidence the FTC received from The Privacy Institute establishing that LabMD
was the only source of the 1718 File. Nor did they disclose their knowledge that Tiversa
obtained the 1718 file by hacking into LabMD’s computer network.
119.

At no time during the Investigation did Sheer, Yodaiken or Settlemyer inform

LabMD that the FTC had received documents from Tiversa via The Privacy Institute, a sham
organization.
120.

At no time during the Investigation did Sheer or Yodaiken issue a CID to Tiversa

for documents and information relating to the 1718 File.
121.

Not a single patient has ever been harmed by the alleged disclosures of the 1718

122.

On August 31, 2011, the FTC demanded that Daugherty and LabMD sign consent

file.

decrees admitting to an unfair trade practice under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45, due to inadequate data security practices. LabMD and Daugherty refused to

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 27 of 42
PUBLIC

sign the consent decrees, making their positions clear to Sheer and Yodaiken on October 20,
2011.
123.

In retaliation for Daugherty and LabMD’s refusals to sign consent decrees, the

FTC issued CIDs to LabMD and Daugherty on December 21, 2011. In response, LabMD and
Daugherty moved the FTC Commissioners to quash the CID on the ground that the FTC lacked
authority to issue the CID, especially because the FTC was relying upon evidence from Tiversa,
a private party with a commercial interest. All but one of the FTC Commissioners denied the
motion to quash. FTC Commissioner J. Thomas Rosch said in his dissent, “I do not agree that
[FTC] staff should further inquire - either by document request, interrogatory, or investigational
hearing - about the 1,718 File.” Commissioner Rosch explained the reason for his dissent:
Specifically, I am concerned that Tiversa is more than an ordinary witness, informant, or
“whistle-blower.” It is a commercial entity that has a financial interest in intentionally
exposing and capturing sensitive files on computer networks, and a business model of
offering its services to help organizations protect against similar infiltrations. Indeed, in
the instant matter, an argument has been raised that Tiversa used its robust, patented peerto-peer monitoring technology to retrieve the 1,718 File, and then repeatedly solicited
LabMD, offering investigative and remediation services regarding the breach, long before
Commission staff contacted LabMD. In my view, while there appears to be nothing per
se unlawful about this evidence, the Commission should avoid even the appearance of
bias or impropriety by not relying on such evidence or information in this investigation.
124.

On information and belief, Sheer and Yodaiken misrepresented material facts to

the Commission, failed to disclose material facts to the Commission and thereby caused the
majority of the Commissioners to deny LabMD and Daugherty’s motion to quash. On
information and belief, Sheer and Yodaiken expressly or impliedly agreed to deprive LabMD
and Daugherty of their constitutional rights by intentionally misrepresenting facts and omitting to
inform their superiors and the Commissioners as follows:
•

The FTC’s primary “evidence” against LabMD was a file taken by Tiversa when Tiversa
hacked directly into a LabMD computer;

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 28 of 42
PUBLIC

•

The only way for a user to locate the 1718 File on a peer-to-peer network was to have
used the highly unusual search terms “insuranceaging” or “6.05.071”;

•

By accessing, downloading and retaining the 1718 File, Tiversa violated several federal
and state crimes;

•

The LabMD computer hacked by Tiversa was the only source of the 1718 File;

•

When Tiversa notified LabMD it had a copy of the 1718 File, LabMD started an
immediate investigation and, within minutes of its discovery of an unauthorized
installation of LimeWire on one of its billing computers, removed the offending software;

•

Boback and Tiversa were unreliable and not credible;

•

Boback and Tiversa had manufactured evidence to make it appear that the 1718 File and
files of other companies had proliferated on peer-to-peer networks when, in fact, they had
not;

•

Sheer, Yodaiken and Boback agreed to create a sham company to receive a CID from the
FTC and that Tiversa, the actual custodian of the requested documents, was free to
withhold from and provide to the FTC whatever evidence it wanted;

•

There were no complaining witnesses; and

•

Not one single patient suffered harm due to any alleged disclosure of the 1718 file.
125.

As a result of Sheer and Yodaiken’s omissions and misrepresentations to the FTC

Commissioners, LabMD and Daugherty were deprived of their constitutional rights.
126.

LabMD and Daugherty fought but ultimately complied with the CIDs, endured

two more civil investigative hearings and produced yet more documents to Sheer and Yodaiken.
127.

After years of FTC pressure and intimidation, Daugherty began speaking out

regarding LabMD’s ordeal with the FTC. Daugherty leveled sharp criticisms at the conduct of

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 29 of 42
PUBLIC

the FTC in general and Sheer and Yodaiken in particular. Specifically, in early 2012, Mr.
Daugherty began to warn the public about the FTC’s abuses (orchestrated by Sheer and
Yodaiken) through the press and social media and through a book, all to express his outrage at
the way that LabMD was being treated by the federal government. Mr. Daugherty used, and
continues to use, the website, http://michaeljdaugherty.com/, to criticize the government.
128.

Daugherty was quoted in the September 7, 2012 edition of the Atlanta Business

Chronicle saying: “We are guilty until proven innocent with these people…. They are on a
fishing expedition. We feel like they are beating up on small business.” The reporter wrote in
her story that “Daugherty contends his company is being unreasonably persecuted by FTC. He
said he’s already spent about $500,000 fighting the investigation.”
129.

Three days later, on September 10, 2012, an FTC paralegal downloaded the

Atlanta Business Chronicle article from LexisNexis and, on information and belief, disseminated
it to Sheer, Yodaiken and other FTC staff members.
130.

After reading Daugherty’s quote, Sheer and Yodaiken ramped up their

investigative efforts against Daugherty and LabMD.
131.

On July 19, 2013, Daugherty posted a trailer on the internet for The Devil Inside

the Beltway, a book he had written about his dealings with Sheer, Yodaiken and others at FTC.
The trailer referred to the FTC’s actions as an “abusive government shakedown” and explained
that his book would “blow the whistle” about how “the Federal Trade Commission began
overwhelming … [LabMD, a] small business, a cancer detection center, with their abusive
beltway tactics.” The trailer was especially critical of Sheer.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 30 of 42
PUBLIC

132.

On July 22, 2013, just three days after the trailer for The Devil Inside the Beltway

was posted on the internet, Sheer told a LabMD attorney that he and his staff recommended an
enforcement action against LabMD.
The Enforcement Action
133.

In their roles as Commission investigators, Defendants Sheer and Yodaiken

convinced their superiors and, ultimately, the FTC Commissioners, to authorize an
administrative enforcement action against LabMD. They did so by concealing the truth and
misrepresenting the facts. The FTC Commissioners would not have authorized the Enforcement
Action if Sheer and Yodaiken had been truthful and forthcoming with the facts. On information
and belief, Sheer and Yodaiken expressly or impliedly agreed to deprive LabMD and Daugherty
of their constitutional rights by intentionally misrepresenting facts and omitting to inform their
superiors and the Commissioners as follows:
•

The FTC’s primary “evidence” against LabMD was a file taken by Tiversa when
Tiversa hacked directly into a LabMD computer;

•

The only way for a user to locate the 1718 File on a peer-to-peer network was to have
used the highly unusual search terms “insuranceaging” or “6.05.071”;

•

By accessing, downloading and retaining the 1718 File, Tiversa violated several
federal and state crimes;

•

The LabMD computer hacked by Tiversa was the only source of the 1718 File;

•

When Tiversa notified LabMD it had a copy of the 1718 File, LabMD started an
immediate investigation and, within minutes of its discovery of an unauthorized
installation of LimeWire on one of its billing computers, removed the offending
software;

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 31 of 42
PUBLIC

•

Boback and Tiversa were unreliable and not credible;

•

Boback and Tiversa had manufactured evidence to make it appear that the 1718 File
and files of other companies had proliferated on peer-to-peer networks when, in fact,
they had not;

•

Sheer, Yodaiken and Boback agreed to create a sham company to receive a CID from
the FTC and that Tiversa, the actual custodian of the requested documents, was free
to withhold from and provide to the FTC whatever evidence it wanted;

•

There were no complaining witnesses; and

•

Not one single patient suffered harm due to any alleged disclosure of the 1718 file.

134.

On August 28, 2013, the FTC Commissioners, relying upon Sheer and

Yodaiken’s misrepresentations and omissions, voted unanimously (4-0) to issue an
administrative enforcement action Complaint against LabMD because LabMD had supposedly
failed to provide “reasonable and appropriate security” for patient information and that this was
an “unfair” act or practice in violation of Section 5.
135.

The FTC filed the administrative enforcement action against LabMD on August

28, 2013 (the “Enforcement Action”). The FTC alleged that LabMD’s data security practices
violated unspecified standards and were “unfair” acts or practices in violation of Section 5. That
same day, the FTC issued a press release and posted a blog celebrating their actions and harshly
criticizing LabMD, thereby harming LabMD’s public reputation.
136.

Sheer was lead counsel in the Enforcement Action until the fall of 2014 when he

was interviewed by the Oversight Committee in the Committee’s investigation of the relationship
between the FTC and Tiversa and the veracity of the information provided by Tiversa to Sheer
and Yodaiken.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 32 of 42
PUBLIC

137.

On August 29, 2013, several weeks before The Devil Inside the Beltway was

published, the FTC issued a press release harshly criticizing LabMD. That same day, the FTC
also published a “blog post” about their actions in which they made disparaging claims about
LabMD and ominously framed the LabMD Complaint as a warning to other businesses: “If your
clients are focused on data security —and they should be—here’s a development they’ll want to
know about.” Lesley Fair, “FTC Files Data Security Complaint Against LabMD,” Business
Center Blog (Aug. 29, 2013).
138.

The Devil Inside the Beltway was published on September 24, 2013.

139.

On September 30, 2013, the FTC served a subpoena on Tiversa. Tiversa failed to

fully respond to the subpoena. Among other categories of documents, the subpoena requested
“all documents related to LabMD.” In its response, Tiversa withheld responsive information that
contradicted other information it did provide about the source and spread of the 1718 File. In
total, Tiversa produced 8,669 pages of documents in response to the subpoena. Because the
production contained five copies of the 1718 File, only 79 pages of other documents remained.
140.

Sheer knew that Tiversa’s response to the subpoena was inadequate but took no

action to compel Tiversa to fully comply with the subpoena. Sheer’s purpose for serving the
Tiversa subpoena was to give the appearance of independence, not to obtain evidence. In truth,
Sheer had no desire to uncover any additional evidence from Tiversa, especially if the evidence
was exculpatory for Daugherty and LabMD.
141.

The FTC did not subpoena The Privacy Institute. That entity dissolved on or

about June 18, 2013, approximately two months before the Enforcement Action began.
142.

October 24, 2013, Sheer retaliated against LabMD and Daugherty by serving a

subpoena on Daugherty requesting the following documents concerning Daugherty’s book:

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 33 of 42
PUBLIC

•

“All drafts of … [LabMD’s CEO’s book about the Defendants] that were reviewed by
any third party prior to the Manuscript’s publication.”

•

“All comments received on drafts of” LabMD’s CEO’s book about the Defendants.

•

“All documents related to the source material for drafts of” LabMD’s CEO’s book about
the Defendants, “including documents referenced or quoted in the” book. (Complaint
Counsel has defined “related” broadly to “mean discussing, constituting, commenting,
containing, concerning, embodying, summarizing, reflecting, explaining, describing,
analyzing, identifying, stating, referring to, dealing with, or in any way pertaining to, in
whole or in part.”)

•

“All promotional materials related to” LabMD’s CEO’s book criticizing Defendants,
“including, but not limited to, documents posted on social media, commercials featuring
… [LabMD’s CEO], and presentations or interviews given by” LabMD’s CEO.
143.

To punish LabMD, Sheer filed or caused to be filed burdensome, duplicative, and

oppressive discovery requests that would not be allowed by an independent Article III court.
144.

Sheer caused the FTC to serve LabMD’s customers and other third parties, almost

none of whom had anything to do with the matters at issue in the Enforcement Action, with
wrongfully intrusive and burdensome subpoenas.
145.

Upon information and belief, Sheer recommended the Enforcement Action to

punish and to make an example of LabMD and Daugherty, both for refusing to sign consent
orders and for exercising First Amendment rights to engage in constitutionally protected speech
about a matter of public concern and criticize the government without fear of government
reprisal.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 34 of 42
PUBLIC

146.

One of the documents produced in the Enforcement Action by Sheer, CX0019,

purports to show that Tiversa had downloaded the 1718 File from four IP addresses on particular
dates and times. In truth, Tiversa analyst Wallace created CX0019, at Boback’s direction, in
2013, near the time of Boback’s deposition, to make it appear that the 1718 File had “spread” to
IP addresses belonging to known identity thieves, and that the 1718 File had not been found at an
Atlanta IP address. Boback specifically asked Wallace to include a San Diego IP address. These
were lies and CX0019 was fraudulent. Sheer knew that CX0019 was fraudulent but proceeded
with the evidence anyway.
147.

In 2014, the Chairman of the Oversight Committee commenced an investigation

of Tiversa regarding its involvement with government agencies. The investigation continued
over a period of months and included investigation into Tiversa’s relationship with the FTC.
148.

The Oversight Committee staff report regarding its 2014 investigation concluded,

inter alia, that Tiversa and Boback provided incomplete, inconsistent, and/or conflicting
information to the FTC in this matter.
149.

In the fall of 2014, after being interviewed by the Oversight Committee, Sheer

was removed from the role of lead counsel in the Enforcement Action.
The Initial Decision
150.

On November 13, 2015, Chief Administrative Law Judge D. Michael Chappell

issued an Initial Decision wherein he concluded that the FTC had failed to carry its burden of
proving its theory that LabMD’s alleged failure to employ reasonable data security constitutes an
unfair trade practice because Complaint Counsel has failed to prove the first prong of the threepart test – that this alleged unreasonable conduct caused or is likely to cause substantial injury to
consumers.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 35 of 42
PUBLIC

151.
•

Judge Chappell made the following findings and conclusions:

With respect to the 1718 File, the FTC’s evidence failed to prove that the limited
exposure of the 1718 File has resulted, or is likely to result, in any identity theft-related
harm.

•

With respect to the exposure of certain LabMD “day sheets” and check copies, the FTC
failed to prove that the exposure of these documents is causally connected to any failure
of LabMD to reasonably protect data maintained on its computer network, as alleged in
the Complaint, because the evidence fails to show that these documents were maintained
on, or taken from, LabMD’s computer network. In addition, the FTC failed to prove that
this exposure has caused, or is likely to cause, any consumer harm.

•

Judge Chappell rejected the FTC’s argument that identity theft-related harm is likely for
all consumers whose personal information is maintained on LabMD’s computer
networks, even if their information has been not exposed in a data breach, on the theory
that LabMD’s computer networks are “at risk” of a future data breach.

•

Fundamental fairness dictates that demonstrating actual or likely substantial consumer
injury under Section 5(n) requires proof of more than the hypothetical or theoretical harm
that has been submitted by the government in this case.

•

Unjustified consumer injury is the primary focus of the FTC Act.

•

The Commission has stated that its “concerns should be with substantial consumer
injuries; its resources should not be used for trivial or speculative harm.”

•

The preponderance of the evidence in this case failed to show that LabMD’s alleged
unreasonable data security caused, or is likely to cause, substantial consumer injury.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 36 of 42
PUBLIC

Accordingly, the Complaint must be dismissed, and it need not, and will not, be further
determined whether or not LabMD’s data security was, in fact, “unreasonable.”
•

Unfair conduct cases usually involve actual and completed harms.

•

Historically, liability for unfair conduct has been imposed only upon proof of actual
consumer harm.

•

The record in this case contains no evidence that any consumer whose Personal
Information has been maintained by LabMD has suffered any harm as a result of
Respondent’s alleged failure to employ “reasonable” data security for its computer
networks, including in connection with the Security Incidents alleged in the Complaint.

•

The FTC did not identify even one consumer that suffered any harm as a result of
LabMD’s alleged unreasonable data security.

•

Given that the government has the burden of persuasion, the reason for the government’s
failure to support its claim of likely consumer harm with any evidence of actual consumer
harm is unclear.

•

Strangely, the FTC took no position as to how the Sacramento Documents came into the
possession of the individuals in Sacramento, and further admits that “there is no
conclusive explanation of how LabMD Day Sheets were exposed.”

•

The evidence shows that the 1718 File was available for peer-to-peer sharing through
LabMD no earlier than June 2007 (the date of the document) until May 2008, when
LabMD removed LimeWire from the billing computer.

•

Although the 1718 File was available for downloading during this period, the evidence
fails to show that the 1718 File was in fact downloaded by anyone other than Tiversa,
who obtained the document in February 2008.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 37 of 42
PUBLIC

•

Because of Boback’s biased motive, Boback is not a credible witness concerning
LabMD, the 1718 File, or other matters material to the liability of LabMD.

•

Boback was evasive and lacked forthrightness in response to questioning during his June
7, 2014 video deposition taken by LabMD for purposes of trial testimony.

•

Boback’s testimony in this case is not credible.

•

Boback’s 2013 discovery deposition, Boback’s 2014 trial deposition testimony, and a
Tiversa-provided exhibit, CX0019, are unreliable, not credible, and outweighed by
credible contrary testimony from Wallace.

•

Tiversa’s Data Store is not a credible or reliable source of information as to the disclosure
source or the spread of any file purportedly found by Tiversa.

•

Former Commissioner Rosch advised in April 2012, in his dissenting opinion on
LabMD’s Motion to Quash or Limit Civil Investigative Demand, that, under these
circumstances, the FTC staff should not inquire about the 1718 File, and should not rely
on Tiversa for evidence or information, in order to avoid the appearance of impropriety.
Judge Chappell noted FTC staff did not heed then-Commissioner Rosch’s warning, and
also did not follow his advice. Instead, Complaint Counsel chose to further commit to
and increase its reliance on Tiversa.
152.

Sheer, Yodaiken, Settlemyer, Boback and Tiversa have won. Through the

Federal Defendants’ abuses of power and disregard for the core constitutional rights of LabMD
and Daugherty, the Federal Defendants have put LabMD out of business and laid it to rest. In
addition, they have deprived Daugherty of his right to make a living from an extremely valuable
asset that he built from the ground up.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 38 of 42
PUBLIC

CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
COUNT I
(Constitutional Violation – First Amendment, Freedom of Speech)
(All Defendants)
153.

Daugherty and LabMD re-allege and incorporate all of the allegations set forth in

Paragraphs 1 through 152 above, as if fully set forth verbatim in this Count I.
154.

Federal Defendants negligently, intentionally and willfully abridged Daugherty

and LabMD’s constitutional rights to express their information, thoughts, opinions, beliefs, ideas
and creativity and other protections and violated Plaintiffs’ other rights and privileges in the First
Amendment.
155.

As a result of the Federal Defendants violation of Plaintiffs’ constitutional rights,

Plaintiffs have been harmed in amounts to be proven at trial.
COUNT II
(Constitutional Violation – First Amendment, Freedom of the Press)
(All Defendants)
156.

Daugherty and LabMD re-allege and incorporate all of the allegations set forth in

Paragraphs 1 through 155 above, as if fully set forth verbatim in this Count II.
157.

The Federal Defendants negligently, intentionally and willfully abridged

Daugherty and LabMD’s constitutional rights to publish their information, thoughts, opinions,
beliefs, ideas and creativity and violated Plaintiffs’ other rights and privileges in the First
Amendment.
158.

As a result of the Federal Defendants violation of Plaintiffs’ constitutional rights,

Plaintiffs have been harmed in amounts to be proven at trial.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 39 of 42
PUBLIC

COUNT III
(Constitutional Violation – First Amendment, Right to Petition
Government for Redress of Grievances)
(All Defendants)
159.

Daugherty and LabMD re-allege and incorporate all of the allegations set forth in

Paragraphs 1 through 158 above, as if fully set forth verbatim in this Count III.
160.

The Federal Defendants negligently, intentionally and willfully abridged

Daugherty and LabMD’s constitutional rights to petition their government and elected officials
for redress of their concerns and grievances and violated Plaintiffs’ other rights and privileges in
the First Amendment.
161.

As a result of the Federal Defendants violation of Plaintiffs’ constitutional rights,

Plaintiffs have been harmed in amounts to be proven at trial.
COUNT IV
(Constitutional Violation – Fourth Amendment, Unreasonable Search and Seizure)
(All Defendants)
162.

Daugherty and LabMD re-allege and incorporate all of the allegations set forth in

Paragraphs 1 through 161 above, as if fully set forth verbatim in this Count IV.
163.

The Federal Defendants negligently, intentionally and willfully abridged

Daugherty and LabMD’s constitutional rights against unlawful search and seizure and violated
Plaintiffs’ other rights and privileges in the Fourth Amendment.
164.

As a result of the Federal Defendants violation of Plaintiffs’ constitutional rights,

Plaintiffs have been harmed in amounts to be proven at trial.
COUNT V
(Constitutional Violation – Fifth Amendment, Procedural Due Process)
(All Defendants)
165.

Daugherty and LabMD re-allege and incorporate all of the allegations set forth in

Paragraphs 1 through 164 above, as if fully set forth verbatim in this Count V.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 40 of 42
PUBLIC

166.

The Federal Defendants negligently, intentionally and willfully abridged

Daugherty and LabMD’s constitutional rights to procedural due process and violated Plaintiffs’
other rights and privileges in the Fifth Amendment.
167.

As a result of the Federal Defendants violation of Plaintiffs’ constitutional rights,

Plaintiffs have been harmed in amounts to be proven at trial.
COUNT VI
(Constitutional Violation – Fifth Amendment, Substantive Due Process)
(All Defendants)
168.

Daugherty and LabMD re-allege and incorporate all of the allegations set forth in

Paragraphs 1 through 167 above, as if fully set forth verbatim in this Count VI.
169.

The Federal Defendants negligently, intentionally and willfully abridged

Daugherty and LabMD’s constitutional rights to substantive due process and violated Plaintiffs’
other rights and privileges in the Fifth Amendment.
170.

As a result of the Federal Defendants violation of Plaintiffs’ constitutional rights,

Plaintiffs have been harmed in amounts to be proven at trial.
COUNT VII
(Civil Conspiracy under Federal Common Law)
(All Defendants)
171.

Daugherty and LabMD re-allege and incorporate all of the allegations set forth in

Paragraphs 1 through 170 above, as if fully set forth verbatim in this Count VII.
172.

The Federal Defendants expressly and impliedly agreed among themselves to

deprive Plaintiffs of their constitutions rights.
173.

The Federal Defendants actually deprived Plaintiffs of their constitutional rights

as a result of their express and implied agreements.

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 41 of 42
PUBLIC

PRAYER FOR RELIEF
WHEREFORE, Daugherty and LabMD respectfully demands the following relief:
a) That Daugherty and LabMD recover from and have judgment against Federal
Defendants, sued in their individual capacities, jointly and severally, in such sums
as sufficient to fully compensate Plaintiffs for all of their damages, losses and
injuries sustained as a result of the facts set forth above, including, without
limitation, consequential, general, nominal and special damages as well as
punitive damages in amounts to be determined by the enlightened conscience of
the jury;
b) For an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs against Federal Defendants;
and
c) For such other and further relief as this Court may deem just and proper.
JURY DEMAND
Plaintiffs seek a trial by jury of all issues so triable.
Dated: November 20, 2015
Respectfully submitted,
/s/Jason H. Ehrenberg
_________________________
Jason H. Ehrenberg (#469077)
Peter K. Tompa (#413752)
BAILEY & EHRENBERG PLLC
1015 18th Street, NW
Suite 204
Washington, DC 20036
Phone: 202.331.4209
Facsimile: 202.318.7071
jhe@becounsel.com

Case 1:15-cv-02034-TSC Document 1 Filed 11/20/15 Page 42 of 42
PUBLIC

and
James W. Hawkins
Pro hac vice (application to be filed)
Georgia State Bar No. 338767
JAMES W. HAWKINS, LLC
11339 Musette Circle
Alpharetta, GA 30009
V: 678-697-1278
F: 678-540-4515
jhawkins@jameswhawkinsllc.com
Attorneys for Plaintiffs Michael J.
Daugherty and LabMD, Inc.

PUBLIC

EXHIBIT B

ORIGINAL
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGl!:S

In the Matter of

LabMD; Inc.,
a c-0rporation,
Respondent.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

)
)
)
)
)
)

DOCKET NO. 9357

)

ORDER ON COMPLAINT COUNSEL'S MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA
SERVED ON COMPLAINT COUNSEL AND FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER

On January 6, 201 4, Complaint Counsel fi led a Motion to Quash Subpoena Served on
Complaint Counsel and for a Protective Order ("Motion"). Complaint Counsel seeks an order
quashing a subpoena ad testificandum served by Respondent LabMD ("Respondenf' or
'~LabMD") on Senior Complaint Counsel Alain Sheer and barring Respondent in the future
from serving any subpoena ad testificandum on any Complaint Counsel attorneys.
Respondent filed its opposition on January 16, 2014 ("Opposition,,).
Having fully reviewed the Motion and the Opposition, and considered all arguments
and contentions raised therein, the Motion is GRANTED JN PART AND DENIED IN PART,
as explained below.

I.

Introduction

The Complaint charges that Respondent, a lab that provides doctors with cancer
detection services, engaged in an unfair trade practice in violation of Section 5(a) ofthe FTC
Act Complaint~ 23. Specifically, the Complaint alleges that Respondent failed to maintain
adequate network security to protect confidential patient information, including by making
certain ''insurance aging reports," allegedly containing confidential patient infonnation,
available on a peer-to-peer, or "P2P" file sharing application. Complaint ~il 17, 19 . The
Complaint further avers that in October 2012, the Sacram ento, Cali fornia Police Depruiment
found more than 35 LabMD "day sheets," allegedly containing confidential patient
1
information ("Day Sheets") , and a small number of copied checks in lhe possession of
individuals who suoseq uentl y pleaded no contest to state charges of identity theft. Complai nt
~2 1.

As alleged i.n the Complaint, Day Sheets are sprea&hcets of p~yments re<.:ttived from <.:onsum<::rs, ·wbi<.:h may
in.elude personal information such as consumer names, SSNs, and methods. amounts, and dates of payments.
Complaint ~ 9.
1

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

upon which Respondent relies to show communications between Mr. Sheer and Dartmouth.
Accordingly, Respondent has fai led to meet its burden of demonstrating that Mr. Sheer's
deposition testimony is ,.the only means" by which Respondent can obtain information
regarding communications with SPD, Tiversa, or Dartmouth College. Moreover, Respondent
failed to provide any facts or argument to support a conclusion that only Mr. Sheer can
provide infom1ation regarding the FTC's analyses and/or processes underlying the decision to
investigate LabMD or rhe decision to apply the FTCs Section 5 "unfairness" authority to
address LabMD 's patient information security practices. 3 Thus, Respondent has failed to
prove the first prong of the Shelton factors.

8.

Whether the information sought is relevant and nonprivileged

The second prong that Respondent must establish is that the information sought is
both relevant and nonprivileged. As set f01th below, Responclent has not met its burden on
this prong of the Shelton factors.
Respondent asserts, without further explanation, that testimony from Mr. Sheer is
relevant to ''certain essential elements of Complaint Counsel's case." Such conclusory,
unsupported assertions do not demonstrate relevance. See Jn re Jn tel Corp. , Docket No. 9·341,
2010 FTC LEXIS 48 , at *4 (May 28, 2010) (denying motion to quash where assertions that
proposed deponents had no relevant knowledge were unsupported '·conclusory assertions").
Respondent also asserts that the testim ony sought from Mr. Sheer goes directly to certain
elements of Complaint Counsel's case and to LabMD's defenses that: ( 1) the ''Complaint fails
to state a claim upon which relief can be granted;" (2) "the Commission is without s ubject­
matter jurisdiction over the claims asserted in rhis case;" (3) "the Commission·s actions are
arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law;" (4)
" the acts or prnctices alleged in the Complaint do nor cause, and are not likely to cause,
substantial injury to consumers that is not reasonably avoidable by consumers themselves;"
and (5) "the enforcement in this action against LabMD violates the due process requirements
of fair notice." Opposition at 6. Specifically, Respondent asserts, Respondent believes "that
Sheer's testimony regarding his commw1ications with Tiversa, Dartmouth, and the SPD will
be helpful in determining whether the Commission 's actions in investigating and filing a
complaint against Lab MD were arbitrruyand capricious, an abuse of discretion, and in
vio lation l'>f due prot:ess." Id.
Complaint Counsel argues that testimony about the Commission's pre-complaint
process and decision to issue a complaint against LabMD are not relevant or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Motion at 5-6.
In Jn re Exxon Co1p., Docket No. 8934, 83 F.T.C. J 759, 1974 FTC LEXIS 226 (June
4. 1974). the Commission held:

J

Respondent does not dispute Complaint Counsel's assertion that the only discovery Respondent has conducted

in rhis case sc:i far consists ofdocmnent iiubpoenas issued to Tiversa and SPD; depo:,ition subpoenas issued to
Tivc1•sn and Complainr Counsel: and inten·ogatories am1 doi:um1tt\l tt:qut::.li. 1i.~u~ tu Cumµlai11 l CuwL..,t:L

5

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

Whether the information is crucia l to the preparation of the case
Respondent argues that the requested information is crucial "to support its defenses
that the Commission·s actions toward LabMD are arbitrary, capricious, an abuse o f discretion
and in contravention of due process and fair notice: ' Opposition at 8. Tltis conclusory
assertion is unpersuasive. In any event, however, as shown above, Respondent bas failed to
demonstrate that the requested information is relevant, or that no other means exist to obtain
the infonnation. Having failed to demonstrate the first two o f the three required Shelton
factors, Respondent 's e ffort to depose Mr. Sheer mus t fai l. Accordingly, whether or not
Respondent has met the third required prong by demonstrati ng that the information is crucial
to the preparation of Res pondent's case need not, and will not, be decided.
O.

Policy considerations

Because Respondent has failed to meet its burden under Shelton, Respondent may not
depose Mr. Sheer. Policy considerations further support applying Shelton to deny the
requested deposition. As the court noted in Sterne Kessler Goldslein & Fox, PLLC. v.
Eastman Kodak Co., 276 F.R.D. 376, 380 (D.D.C. 2011). "[clourts confronted by demands
for counsel depositions have noted a number of concerns that such d iscovery poses,'·
including that:
depositions of opposing counsel present a ..unique opportunity for
harassment... Marco /.\·land Partners v. Oak Dev. Corp., l l 7 F.R.D. 4 l8, 420
(N.l) . Ill. 1987) ~ see also Shelton, 805 F.2d at 1330 ("The harassing practice of
deposing opposing counsel (unless that counsel' s testimony is crucial and
unique) appears to be an adversary trial tactic that doe nothing for the
administratio n ofjustice but rather prolongs and increases the costs of
litigation, demeans the profession, and constitutes an abuse of the discovery
process.'·)~ ... [In addition, t]ime involved in preparing for and undergoing
such depositions will disrupt counsels' preparation of parties' cases and thus
decrease the overall quality of representatio n. See In re Suhpoe11a issued to
Dennis Friedman, 350 F.3d 65, 70 (2d C ir. 2003) (" Courts have been
especi ally concerned about the burdens imposed o n the adversary process
when lawyers themselves have been the subject of discovery requests, and
have resisted the idea that lawyers should routinely be subject to broad
d iscovery:·)~ Shelton, 805 F.2d at 1327 (depositions of opposing counsel ·'not
only disrupts the adversarial system and lowers the standards of the profession,
but it also adds to the already burdensome time and costs o flitigation.'');
Jennings v. Family Mgmt. , 201 F.R.D. 272, 276-77 (D.D.C. 2001) ("'[C]ourts
regard attorney depositio ns unfavorably because they may interfere with the
attomey· s case preparation and risk disqualification of counsel who may be
called as witness."); .... [Also] such depositions may lead to the
d isquolificat ion of counsel who may be called ns witnesses. See Marco ls/and,
117 F.R.D. at 420; Jennings. 20 1 F.R.D. nt 276-77.

Sterne, 276 F.R.D. ac 38 1-82.
'/

PUBLIC

Iu the instant case, permitting the requested deposition ofMr. Sheer)mplicates each of
the foregoing concerns. Where, as here, it does not appear that', Mr. Sheer p0ssesses unique
and/or crucial information, allowing the requested deposition risks disrupting trial ·
preparatio'n, increasing time and cost requirements, and countenancing potentially harassing
trial tactics.

E.

Protective Order

Io addition to an order quashing the Sheer deposition subpoena, Complaint Counsel
seeks an order barring Respondent from issuing any deposition subpoenas to Complaint
Counsel generally. The burden of demonstrating an entitlement to this protective order is on
Complaint Counsel. In re Polypore Int?, 2008 FTC LEXIS 155, at *14-16 (Nov. 14, 2008);
In re Schering-Plough Corp., 2001 FTC LEXIS 105, at *5 (July6, 2001).
lt cannot be defennined on the present record (hat the requested protective order is
warranted. Complaint Counsel does not contend that Respondent has issued any deposition
subpoenas to Complaint Counsel other than that issued to Mr. Sheer. Moreover, as noted
earlier, attorneys are not immune from being deposed. Shelton, 805 F.2d at 1327. Rather, as
is clear from Shelton and related authorities, the detennination of whether a counsel
deposition can proceed is a fact-based inquiry. Complaint Counsel's invitation to issue a
" blanket" prohibition against future subpoenas directed to yeHo· be detennined counsel ·is
declined.
Because Complaint Counsel bas failed to meet its burden of demonstrating an
entitlement to the requested protective urder, Complaint Counsel's Motion for a Protective
Order is DENfED.
.IV.

Conclusion

For all the foregoing reasons, Complaint Counsel's Motion is GRANTED IN PART,
and it is hereby ORDERED that Respondent's subpoena ad testificandum served on
Complaint Counsel Alain Sbeer is QUASHED. fn all other respects, including Complaint
Counsel's request for a protective order, the Motion is DENIED.

ORDERED:

Date: January 30, 2013

8

ORIGINAL

PUBLIC

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW J UDGES

FEB 2 1 2Q14

5{i.'17'fi

)
)

In the Matter of

~ARY

)

..

LabMD, Loe.,
a corporation,
Respondent.

)
)
)

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

)

DOCKET NO. 9357

ORDER DENYING RESPONDENT'S
MOTION FOR A R ULE 3.36 SUBPOENA

On January 30, 20 I 4, Respondent filed a Motion for a Rule 3.36 Subpoena to require the
production of documents that are in the possession, custody, or control ofthe FTC
Commissioners or the FTC's Office of Public Affairs ("Motion"). Complaint Counsel filed its
opposition on February 10, 2014 ("Opposition").
Having fully reviewed the Motion and the Opposition, and having considered all
arguments and contentions raised therein, the Motion is DENIED, as explained below.
I.

Introduction

The Complaint charges that Respondent, a lab that provides doctors with cancer detection
services, engaged in an unfair trade practice in violation of Section S(a) of the FTC Act by
failing to take reasonable and appropriate measures to prevent unauthorized access to consumers'
personal information. Complaint iriJ 6-11, 17-21 7 23. Allegations of the Complaint relevant to
the Motion are:
. 1) one of LabMD 's files containing confidential patient information ("the 1718 file") was
accessible through a public peer-to-peer ("P2P") file sharing network; Complaint ~~ 1O(g), 17­
20;
2) 35 LabMD ··oay Sheets>" 1 containing confidential patient information, and a small
number of copied checks were found in the possession of individuals who subsequently pleaded
no contest to state charges of identity theft ("the Sacramento Inci<lenl"); Complaint if 21 ; am]

1

As alleged in the Complaint, Day Sheets are spreadsheets of payments received from consumers, which may
include personal infonnation such as consumer names, Social Security Numbers, and methods, amotJnts. and dates
of payments. Complaint ii 9.

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

custody, or control of the Bureaus or Offices of the Commission that inv~stigated the matter,
including the Bureau of Economics" (16 C.F.R. § 3.3l(c)(2)) relevant to the Complaint's
allegation that, since 2005, security professionals and others (including the Commission) have
warned that P2P applications present a risk that users will inadvertently share files on P2P
networks~ and to produce non~privileged, responsive materials within 14 days. 5 Complaint
Counsel is not required to produce materials "between complaint counsel and non-testifying
Commission employees," as Respondent has not provided any basis for fincling that good cause
exists to require such production. 16 C.F.R. § 3.3 l(c)(2).
With respect to documents sought from employees ofthe Commission not involved in the
matter1 Respondent has not made the required showing for issuance of a Rule 3.36 subpoena.

IV.

Conclusion
For all the foregoing reasons, Respondent's Motion for a Rule 3.36 Subpoena is

DENIED.

ORDERED:

Date: February 21 , 2014

5

Complaint Counsel will be precluded from offering into evidence in this matter any responsive documents or other
information not produced that relate to or might support the allegations in paragraph l6 ofthe Complaint.

8

1- ~ --

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
OFFICI!'. OF ADMJNISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES

)
)
)
)
)
)

In the Matter of

LabMD, Inc.,
a corporation,
Respondent.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)

DOCKET NO. 9357

ORDER GRANTING COMPLAINT COUNSEL'S MOTION
TO QUASH AND TO LIMIT DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS
SERVED ON COMMISSION ATTORNEYS
On February 10, 2014, Complaint Counsel filed a Motion to Quash Subpoena Served on
Commission Attorney Carl Settlemyer and to Limit Subpoena Served on Com.mission Attorney
Ruth Yodaiken (''Motion"). Respondent LabMD, Inc. ("Respondent" or "LabMD") filed an
opposition to the Motion on February 20, 2014 ("Opposition").
Having fully reviewed the Motion and the Opposition, and considered all arguments and
contentions raised therein, the Motion is GRANTED, as explained below.

I.

Introduction

The Complaint charges that Respondent, a lab that provides doctors with cancer detection
services, engaged in an unfair trade practice in violation of Section 5(a) ofthe Federal Trade
Commission (''FTC") Act. Complaint~ 23. Specifically, the Complaint alleges that Respondent
failed.to maintain adequate network security t.o protec1 confidential patient informe1tion~
including by making certain "insurance aging report:'!," allegedly containing confidential patient
information, available on a peer-to-peer, or " P2P" file sharing application ("the 1718 file").
Complaint ft 17, 19. The Complaint further avers that in October 2012, the Sacramento,
California Police Department (''SPD") found more than 35 LabMD "Day Sheets," allegedly
containing confidential patient information ("Day Sheets"), 1 and a small number of copied
checks, in the possession of individuals who subsequently pleaded no contest to state charges of
identity theft (the "Sacramento Incident"). Complaint, 21.
Respondent's Answer admits that an alleged third party, Tiversa Holding Corporation
("Tiversa"), contacted Respondent in May 2008 and claimed to have obtained.the P2P insurance
aging file via LimeWire, but denies that Respondent violated the FTC Act or that any consumer

1

As alleged in the Complaint, Day Sheets are spreadsheets ofpayments received from consumers, which may
include personal infonnation such as consumer names, Social Security Numbers, and methods, amounts, and dates
ofpayments. Complaint ii 9.

-------~·-·

----

"- - -

-

--·-· · -~--

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

that Respondent seeks to discover through Ms. Yodaiken the FTC 's communications with
Tiversa or Dartmouth in order to challenge the Commission's actions in investigating and filing
the Complaint in this case, such pre-Complaint communications are not relevant, or reasonably
likely to lead to the discovery ofrelevant evidence, and thus are not discoverable.
Based on the foregoing, Complaint Counsel's Motion to Limit the subpoena issued to
Ms. Yodaiken to1he topic of Ms. Yodaiken's communications with SPD is GRANTED.

V.

Conclusion

Based on full consideration of the Motion and Opposition, and for all the foregoing
reasons, Complaint Counsel's Motion is GRANTED, and it is hereby ORDERED that (1) the
subpoena ad testificandum served on Carl Settlemyer is QUASHED~ and (2) the subpoena ad
testificandum served on Ruth Yodaiken is LIMITED to testimony about the substance of her
communications with the Sacramento Police Department. 4

ORDERED:

Date: February 25, 2014

4

Moreover, as noted in the Order of February 21, 2014, limiting Respondent's discovery as provided herein does
not prejudice Respondent's ability to pursue at a later phase of the case jts claim that the Commission's actions in
investigating and filing the Complaint were unlawful. See FTC v. Standard Oil Co. ofCalifornia, 449 U.S. 232,
245-46 (1980).

7

Notice of Electronic Service
I hereby certify that on September 21, 2016, I filed an electronic copy of the foregoing RESPONDENT LabMD,
INC.’S OPPOSITION TO COMPLAINT COUNSEL’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SURREPLY , with:
D. Michael Chappell
Chief Administrative Law Judge
600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW
Suite 110
Washington, DC, 20580
Donald Clark
600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW
Suite 172
Washington, DC, 20580
I hereby certify that on September 21, 2016, I served via E-Service an electronic copy of the foregoing
RESPONDENT LabMD, INC.’S OPPOSITION TO COMPLAINT COUNSEL’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
FILE SURREPLY , upon:
John Krebs
Attorney
Federal Trade Commission
jkrebs@ftc.gov
Complaint
Hallee Morgan
Cause of Action
cmccoyhunter@ftc.gov
Respondent
Jarad Brown
Attorney
Federal Trade Commission
jbrown4@ftc.gov
Complaint
Kent Huntington
Counsel
Cause of Action
cmccoyhunter@ftc.gov
Respondent
Sunni Harris
Esq.
Dinsmore & Shohl LLP
sunni.harris@dinsmore.com
Respondent
Daniel Epstein
Cause of Action
daniel.epstein@causeofaction.org
Respondent
Patrick Massari
Counsel
Cause of Action
patrick.massari@causeofaction.org
Respondent

Alain Sheer
attorney
Federal Trade Commission
asheer@ftc.gov
Complaint
Laura Riposo VanDruff
General Attorney
Federal Trade Commission
lvandruff@ftc.gov
Complaint
Megan Cox
Attorney
Federal Trade Commission
mcox1@ftc.gov
Complaint
Ryan Mehm
Attorney
Federal Trade Commission
rmehm@ftc.gov
Complaint
Erica Marshall
Counsel
Cause of Action
erica.marshall@causeofaction.org
Respondent
Alfred Lechner
President & CEO
Cause of Action Institute
jlechner@causeofaction.org
Respondent

Patrick Massari
Attorney

