UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

09 09 2016
583962

COMMISSIONERS:

In the Matter of
LabMD, Inc.,
a corporation,
Respondent.

Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman
Maureen K. Ohlhausen
Terrell McSweeny

)
)
)
)
)
)
)

PUBLIC
Docket No. 9357

COMPLAINT COUNSEL’S OPPOSITION TO
RESPONDENT’S APPLICATION FOR STAY OF FINAL ORDER
Respondent has failed to meet its burden to show that a stay of the Commission’s Final
Order pending appeal is warranted. See Resp’t LabMD, Inc.’s Appl. for Stay of Final Order
Pending Review by a U.S. Ct. of Appeals (Aug. 30, 2016) (“Application for Stay”). Respondent
holds the most sensitive personal data of hundreds of thousands of consumers, employing data
security practices that the Commission has found to be unfair. Additionally, 9,300 consumers
whose data was exposed by those practices remain in the dark about that exposure, powerless to
take the steps necessary to remedy the serious effects of that exposure. The harm consumers
continue to suffer without that relief far outweighs any claimed harm to Respondent.
Respondent has failed to show that is likely to succeed on appeal with its recycled arguments.
And Respondent has also failed to substantiate its claims of the harm it will suffer if the
Commission does not grant a stay. In light of the overwhelming interest of the consumers in
the relief provided by the Final Order, the Commission should deny Respondent’s Application
for Stay.

PUBLIC
BACKGROUND
The Commission issued the Complaint in the matter of LabMD, Inc. on August 28,
2013.1 On January 6, 2014, Respondent LabMD, Inc. informed its customers—physicians and
physician-practices for whom it provided testing services—that it would stop accepting new
specimens for testing on January 11, 2014. CX0291 (LabMD Letter to Physicians Office re:
Closing). In its March 3, 2014 responses to discovery propounded by Complaint Counsel,
Respondent stated that it intended to employ the same policies and procedures to protect
consumers’ information in the future that it had before it stopped accepting new testing orders.
CX0765 (LabMD Resps. to 2d Set of Disc.) at 5-6, 7. Respondent also stated that it did not
intend to dissolve as a Corporation. Id. at 7.2
The evidentiary hearing commenced on May 20, 2014 and concluded on July 15, 2015.
Op. of the Comm’n at 6. The parties filed post-trial briefs and proposed findings of fact and

1

Respondent makes a number of factual assertions throughout its Application to Stay that
Complaint Counsel disputes. For example, incredibly, Respondent states, without citation, that
its witness Richard Wallace “never testified that he accessed the 1718 File through LimeWire.”
Appl. for Stay at 8 n.9. To the contrary, Mr. Wallace testified that he downloaded the 1718 File
“using a stand-alone desktop computer.” Tr. 1372. And he further testified that he searched for
files on the stand-alone computer “using a standard, off-the-shelf peer-to-peer client, such as
LimeWire or BearShare or Kazaa or Morpheus, any of those that are, you know, affiliated with
the Gnutella network.” Tr. 1342; see also Op. of the Comm’n at 3 (citing Init. Decision Finding
¶ 121-22). Complaint Counsel has limited its response to only those facts and issues that are
germane to the Commission’s consideration of the Application for Stay. In addressing only the
relevant facts and issues, Complaint Counsel does not concede any of the irrelevant factual
assertions made by Respondent.
2

By March 2014, Respondent had no employees other than Michael Daugherty, its President and
Chief Executive Officer; had moved all operations to its current premises; and had disconnected
all but one system from the internet. CX0873 (Suppl. Decl. of Michael J. Daugherty in support
of Plf.’s Resp. to Def.’s Mot. to Amend Sched. Order in LabMD, Inc. v. FTC (N.D. Ga.)) at 2-3;
Compl. Counsel’s Proposed Findings of Fact ¶ 69 (Aug. 10, 2015); CX0709 (Daugherty, Dep. at
42-43). Thus the state of Respondent’s operations as described in Mr. Daugherty’s declaration,
Appl. for Stay, Exhibit 18 ¶¶ 4, 8-12, 17 (“Daugherty Decl.”), is nearly identical to the state of
operations that Commission considered when concluding that it was necessary to enter the Final
Order. Op. of the Comm’n at 36.
2

PUBLIC
conclusions of law on August 10, 20153 and replies thereto on September 4, 2015. Order on
Post-Trial Briefs at 1-2 (July 16, 2015). The Chief Administrative Law Judge issued his initial
decision on November 13, 2015 dismissing the case. Initial Decision (Nov. 13, 2015).
Complaint Counsel appealed the Initial Decision on December 22, 2016,4 Respondent filed its
Answering Brief on February 5, 2016, and Complaint Counsel filed a Reply on February 23,
2016. At no time before the close of the evidentiary record, during the aforementioned briefing,
or since did Respondent seek to submit evidence regarding its alleged insolvency or its financial
condition. Likewise, Respondent did not argue this point in any of the briefing.
On July 29, 2016, the Commission issued its Opinion, reversing the Initial Decision. Op.
of the Comm’n at 1. The Commission found that Respondent did not put reasonable security
measures in place, and supported its finding with extensive citations to the evidentiary record.
Id. at 11-16. The Commission held that Respondent’s data security practices were unfair
because its practices caused substantial injury in the form of the disclosure of sensitive health or
medical information, citing to expert testimony and wide-ranging sources recognizing the harm
in disclosure of health or medical information. Id. at 16-19. The Commission also held that
Respondent’s practices were likely to cause substantial injury, overruling the Initial Decision’s
holding on the meaning of “likely to cause,” and grounding its interpretation in the Unfairness
Statement and caselaw. Id. at 20-25.
The Commission further held that consumers could not reasonably avoid the harm caused
by Respondent’s practices. Id. at 25-26. And it held that no countervailing benefits to
consumers or competition outweighed the substantial injury caused by Respondent’s practices,
3

Both parties subsequently filed corrected versions of some of their initial post-trial briefing on
August 11 and 12, 2015.

4

Complaint Counsel filed a Corrected Appeal Brief on January 14, 2016, correcting errors in the
Table of Authorities.
3

PUBLIC
based on unrebutted evidence of the many low cost solutions Respondent could have
implemented. Id. at 26-28. Consequently, the Commission held that “LabMD’s data security
practices constitute an unfair act or practice within the meaning of Section 5 of the FTC Act.”
Id. at 1. The Commission also carefully considered and ruled against Respondent’s affirmative
defenses and miscellaneous objections. Id. at 28-33. The Commission entered the Final Order,
“requiring that LabMD notify affected individuals, establish a comprehensive information
security program, and obtain assessments regarding its implementation of the program.” Id. at
37; Final Order (July 29, 2016). The Commission noted that the Final Order “takes account of
LabMD’s current limited operations.” Id. at 36.

LEGAL STANDARD
Under Commission Rule 3.56(c), an application for a stay must address the following
four factors: “[1] the likelihood of the applicant’s success on appeal, [2] whether the applicant
will suffer irreparable harm if a stay is not granted, [3] the degree of injury to other parties if a
stay is granted, and [4] why the stay is in the public interest.” 16 C.F.R. § 3.56(c). It is the
applicant’s burden to establish that a stay is warranted. Toys “R” Us, Inc., 126 F.T.C. 695, 698
(1998). Respondent’s application must therefore be supported by “affidavits or other sworn
statements, and a copy of the relevant portions of the record.” 16 C.F.R. § 3.56(c); Ky.
Household Goods Carriers Ass’n, Inc., Docket No. 9309, 2005 WL 2114221, at *4-5 (F.T.C.
Aug.19, 2005) (denying stay because Respondents provided “no specific factual support for
[their] assertions”).

4

PUBLIC
ARGUMENT
I.

Respondent Is Not Likely to Succeed on the Merits on Appeal
Respondent has not made a strong showing of likelihood of success on the merits on

appeal. See N.C. Bd. of Dental Exam’rs, Docket No. 9343, 2012 WL 588756, at *1 (F.T.C. Feb.
10, 2012) (“If the balance of the equities (i.e., the last three factors) is not heavily tilted in the
petitioner’s favor, the petitioner must make a more substantial showing of likelihood of success
on the merits in order to obtain a stay pending appeal.”); Cal. Dental Ass’n, Docket No. 9259,
1996 FTC LEXIS 277, at *10 (May 22, 1996). Respondent recites a litany of its past arguments
as reasons its petition for review will be granted, Appl. for Stay at 12-25, but has failed to
demonstrate that its arguments will fare any better on appeal. “[M]erely repeating arguments the
Commission rejected before does not provide the Commission with sufficient reason to question
its prior decision or any of the bases for it, and Respondent[’]s renewal of its legal arguments,
without more, is insufficient to justify granting a stay.” Daniel Chapter One, Docket No. 9329,
2010 WL 9434821, at *3 (F.T.C. Mar. 22, 2010) (internal quotation omitted). Similarly,
disagreement with the Opinion of the Commission does not alone establish a likelihood of
success on appeal. Id. at *2.
Nor do Respondent’s ostensibly new arguments criticizing the Opinion of the
Commission demonstrate a likelihood of success. First, Respondent argues that the Opinion of
the Commission is not supported by substantial evidence. Appl. for Stay at 15-19. But
Respondent’s points in support of this argument are themselves only renewals of its past
arguments, which are no more persuasive now. In any event, the Opinion of the Commission is
well-supported legally and amply sustained by substantial evidence, and is thus not likely to be
overturned on appeal. See POM Wonderful, LLC v. FTC, 777 F.3d 478, 499-500 (D.C. Cir.

5

PUBLIC
2015) (reviewing courts give deference to Commission’s factual findings supported by
substantial evidence); FTC v. Ind. Fed’n of Dentists, 476 U.S. 447, 454 (1986) (“[T]he court
must accept the Commission’s findings of fact if they are supported by such relevant evidence as
a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.”) (internal quotation
omitted).
Respondent’s next argument, that the Final Order is unlawful because it is not a ceaseand-desist order, is belied by the caselaw. Appl. for Stay at 21-22.5 Even when bringing a case
in the administrative context, “[t]he Commission is not limited to prohibiting the illegal practice
in the precise form in which it is found to have existed in the past.” Op. of the Comm’n at 34
(quoting FTC v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 380 U.S. 374, 395 (1965)). To the contrary, “the
Commission has wide latitude in fashioning orders to prevent . . . respondents from pursuing a
course of conduct similar to that found to have been unfair.” Id. (quoting Thompson Med. Co.,
104 F.T.C. 648, 832-33 (1984), aff’d, 791 F.2d 189 (D.C. Cir. 1986) (internal quotation marks
omitted). Respondent’s inapposite citation to FTC v. World Travel Vacation Brokers, Inc.,
which concerns the limits of the Commission’s power to bring cases in federal court under
Section 13(b) of the FTC Act, does not support its argument that the Final Order exceeds the
Commission’s authority. See 861 F.2d 1020, 1027-28 (7th Cir. 1988).
Respondent’s argument that Part III of the Final Order constitutes redress is equally
without merit. See Appl. for Stay at 22.6 Respondent’s argument seems to be that a notification
requirement is equivalent to redress. However, the sole authority to which Respondent cites
stands only for the proposition that the Commission cannot include actual monetary redress in an

5

Respondent failed to raise this argument on appeal or in its prior briefing.

6

Respondent failed to raise this argument on appeal or in its prior briefing.
6

PUBLIC
administrative order. Heater v. FTC, 503 F.2d 321, 323-27 (9th Cir. 1974). Because the Final
Order does not include a monetary redress requirement, Heater is inapposite.
Finally, Respondent argues that the Final Order forces it to retroactively comply with
obligations under HITECH. See Appl. for Stay at 22-23.7 It is irrelevant that the Commission’s
order bears a resemblance to certain regulatory obligations subsequently imposed on businesses
by the United States Department of Health and Human Services. See Ruberoid v. FTC, 343 U.S.
470, 473 (1952) (“[T]he Commission has wide discretion in its choice of a remedy deemed
adequate to cope with unlawful practices . . . .”) (quoting Jacob Siegel Co. v. FTC, 327 U.S. 608,
611 (1946) (internal quotation marks omitted).
For the reasons above, Respondent has failed to show a likelihood of success on appeal
on the merits.8

7

Respondent failed to raise this argument on appeal or in its prior briefing. Also, in support of
this argument, Respondent cites to its proposed exhibit RX659—a closing letter in the LimeWire
LLC matter—that (1) was excluded from the evidentiary record (Order on Resp’t’s Mot. to
Admit Exs. at 2-3 (July 15, 2015)); (2) Respondent did not attach to its filing; and (3) is
completely unrelated to the proposition for which it is cited. See Appl. for Stay at 23; Resp’t’s
Mot. to Admit Select Exs. at RX659 (June 12, 2015) (PDF pp. 512-514). To the extent
Respondent argues on reply that it intended to cite to RX649 (Exhibit 36 to its Application), that
proposed exhibit was also excluded from the evidentiary record (Order on Resp’t’s Mot. to
Admit Exs. at 2-3 (July 15, 2015)), and furthermore should be disregarded because it is
unreliable hearsay within hearsay—a blind quote in a blog post by a pseudonymous blogger—
and not probative. See Compl. Counsel’s Reply Brief to Resp’t’s Answering Brief at 39 (Feb.
23, 2016) (stating arguments against consideration of RX649).
8

The Commission may also grant a stay if the case presents the application of difficult legal
questions to a complex factual record, provided that the balance of the equities weighs heavily in
favor of a stay. See N. Tex. Specialty Physicians, Docket. No. 9312, 2006 WL 271513, at *2, *2
n.2 (F.T.C. Jan. 20, 2006) (noting that the “Commission additionally considers the complexity of
the case; whether the Commission has ruled on a difficult legal question; and whether the
balance of the equities supports a stay,” and the “probability of success that must be
demonstrated is inversely proportional to the amount of irreparable injury suffered absent the
stay”); Daniel Chapter One, Docket No. 9329, 2010 WL 9434821, at *2 (F.T.C. Mar. 22, 2010)
(“[I]f the equities decidedly tip in favor of the Respondents it is enough that they raise questions
sufficiently serious and substantial to constitute fair ground for litigation.”) (internal quotation
marks omitted). Complaint Counsel agrees that this case involves an extensive and complex
7

PUBLIC
II.

Respondent Has Not Established Irreparable Harm Absent a Stay
Respondent bears the burden of establishing that a denial of a stay will cause irreparable

harm. Ky. Household Goods Carriers Ass’n, Inc., 2005 WL 2114221, at *4. “Simple assertions
of harm or conclusory statements based on unsupported assumptions will not suffice.
[Respondent] must show, with particularity, that the irreparable injury alleged is both substantial
and likely to occur absent a stay.” Id. (quoting Cal. Dental Ass’n, 1996 FTC LEXIS 277, at *67). As discussed below, Respondent has failed to provide factual support for its claim that the
costs of complying with the Order would be substantial; Respondent’s arguments that the Order
would cause irreparable harm by violating Respondent’s constitutional rights are meritless; and
Respondent has failed to show that any effect on its reputation would cause irreparable harm.
As a threshold matter, for purposes of considering a stay, the Commission should not
credit Respondent’s claim that it is insolvent. See Daugherty Decl. ¶¶ 6-8. The only evidence
Respondent provides in support of this claim is the self-serving declaration of Mr. Daugherty.
Complaint Counsel has not had an opportunity to test these new statements by deposition or
other discovery. Respondent’s current operations, as described in the Declaration, Daugherty
Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, 7-10, 17, are nearly unchanged from their state in February 2014, before the close
of discovery. See Note 2, supra. However, Respondent never supplemented its discovery
responses or suggested in its briefing that it would be financially unable to comply with the
proposed notice order.9

record and presents important issues. See Comm’n Order Extending Deadlines for Filing
Petition for Reconsideration and Answer Thereto (Aug. 12, 2016). But, as discussed in Sections
II and III below, Respondent has failed to meet the high burden of showing that a stay is merited
on the equities, and thus the Commission should not grant it.
9

The Commission should be further skeptical of this claim because throughout the period of its
claimed impoverishment, Respondent has employed six law firms and eleven attorneys (not
including the attorneys who represented it in this proceeding) to represent it in four actions it has
8

PUBLIC
A.

Respondent Has Failed to Supports its Claims of Substantial Compliance
Costs

Respondent asserts that it would incur substantial monetary costs to comply with the
Order, claiming that such costs “may be more than $250,000.00.” Appl. for Stay at 25.
However, Respondent has failed to provide any competent factual support for this claim. See
Mich. Coal. of Radioactive Material Users, Inc. v. Griepentrog, 945 F.2d 150, 154 (6th Cir.
1991) (citation omitted) (stating that movant must provide “specific facts and affidavits
supporting assertions”). Respondent cites to Novartis, 128 F.T.C 233 (1999), for the proposition
that unrecoverable compliance costs constitute irreparable injury. Appl. for Stay at 25. In
Novartis, however, respondent showed that it would necessarily spend $8 million for corrective
advertising absent a partial stay. N. Tex. Specialty Physicians, Docket No. 9312, 2006 WL
271513, at *4 (F.T.C. Jan. 20, 2016) (distinguishing Novartis). Respondent has failed to provide
any evidence that, absent a stay, it would be subject to substantial compliance costs.
Respondent’s only supporting documentation for its alleged compliance costs is the selfserving declaration of Mr. Daugherty. However, Mr. Daugherty’s declaration simply reasserts
the same unsubstantiated claims made in Respondent’s Application for Stay. Daugherty Decl.
initiated as a plaintiff. LabMD, Inc. v. FTC, No. 1:14-cv-00810-WSD (N.D. Ga. 2014)
(Respondent represented by Burleigh L. Singleton, Ronald L. Raider, and William D. Meyer of
Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton, LLP and two attorneys who also appeared in this matter);
LabMD, Inc. v. Tiversa Holding Corp. et al., No. 2:15-cv-00092-MPK (W.D. Pa. 2015)
(Respondent represented by John R. Gotaskie, Jr. of Fox Rothschild LLP; Michael E. Ross and
Eric S. Fisher of Taylor English Duma LLP; Kenneth M. Argentieri and Julie S. Greenberg of
Duane Morris LLP; and James W. Hawkins of James W. Hawkins, LLC); Daugherty et al. v.
Sheer et al., No. 1:15-cv-02034 (D.D.C. 2015) (Respondent represented by Jason H. Ehrenberg
and Peter K. Tompa of Bailey and Ehrenberg PLLC and James W. Hawkins); Daugherty et al. v.
Adams et al., No. 1:16-cv-02480-LMM (N.D. Ga. 2016) (Respondent represented by James W.
Hawkins). Respondent has also announced that it has hired three attorneys from Ropes &
Gray—partners Douglas Meal and Michelle Visser and counsel David Cohen—to represent it in
its anticipated appeal of the Commission’s order in this action. See Ropes & Gray to Represent
LabMD in FTC Data Security Challenge, available at https://www.ropesgray.com/newsroom/
news/2016/08/Ropes-Gray-to-Represent-LabMD-in-FTC-Data-Security-Challenge.aspx (last
visited Sept. 7, 2016).
9

PUBLIC
¶ 22. For example, Mr. Daugherty states that he has “been told that such assessments [as
required by Part II of the Order] can cost in the neighborhood of $250,000.00.” Id. Respondent
offers no competent evidence or documentation to corroborate this bare assertion of a hearsay
statement made by an unidentified party.
The cost of an information security assessment is highly specific to a business’s size and
complexity and the nature and scope of a business’s activities. Respondent states that it has not
had an operational computer network since July 2014, that its computer systems are not
connected to or accessible via the Internet, and that its servers and other devices remain
unplugged except when necessary to retrieve records for its former clients. Daugherty Decl.
¶¶ 9, 16-18. Respondent does not assert, let alone provide any evidence showing, that an
information security assessment of this particular size and scope would cost $250,000. Given the
limited nature and scope of its current operations, Respondent has failed to provide any facts to
support its assertion that the assessments required by Part II of the Order constitute a substantial
expense.
Similarly, Respondent contends that establishing and implementing a comprehensive
information security program, as required by Part I of the Order, would impose substantial costs,
but provides no factual support for this assertion. First, Respondent claims that even attempting
to adopt a comprehensive information security program would require consulting with and
paying Information Technology (“IT”) professionals and attorneys. Daugherty Decl. ¶ 22(a)(iv).
However, Respondent has failed to quantify or otherwise provide any specific facts regarding the
costs associated with these activities. In light of the limited nature and scope of Respondent’s
current operations, the Commission cannot presume, without appropriate quantification and
supporting evidence, that such expenses would be substantial.

10

PUBLIC
Second, Respondent claims that “if Part I is interpreted to require the rebuilding of
Respondent’s computer network, [Mr. Daugherty’s] understanding is that this will cost at least
$10,000.00 plus maintenance fees.” Daugherty Decl. ¶ 22(a)(v). This assertion is speculative,
unsupported by any evidence, and reflects a bizarre misreading of the Order. The Order does not
require Respondent to rebuild its computer network or otherwise resume more active operations.
As the Opinion of the Commission explained:
[T]he Order takes account of LabMD’s current limited operations. The Order
requires LabMD to establish and implement a comprehensive information
security program that provides administrative, technical, and physical safeguards
that are appropriate for the nature and scope of LabMD’s activities. A reasonable
and appropriate information security program for LabMD’s current operations
with a computer that is shut down and not connected to the Internet will
undoubtedly differ from an appropriate comprehensive information security
program if LabMD resumes more active operations.
Op. of the Comm’n at 36. Importantly, Respondent also claims that it “does not expect ever to
resume operations and does not see how that could ever happen.” Daugherty Decl. ¶ 19.
Therefore, Respondent’s assertions regarding the costs of rebuilding its computer network are
purely speculative and cannot substantiate a claim of irreparable harm. See Mich. Coal. of
Radioactive Material Users, Inc., 945 F.2d at 154 (holding that “the harm alleged must be both
certain and immediate, rather than speculative or theoretical”).
Respondent also contends that notifying Affected Individuals regarding the unauthorized
disclosure of their personal information, as required by Part III of the Order, would impose
substantial costs in monies, time, and effort. For example, citing the price of a first-class mail
stamp, Respondent estimates that the cost of postage to notify the 9,300 consumers whose
personal information was contained in the Insurance File would be $4,371.00. Daugherty Decl.
¶ 22. However, the Commission has denied stays in other cases in which notification provisions
would have imposed similar, de minimis costs. See, e.g., N. Tex. Specialty Physicians, 2006 WL
11

PUBLIC
271513, at *5-6 (denying stay of notification provision). Furthermore, Respondent provides no
quantification or evidence in support of the “time and attention” costs it claims it will incur in
notifying Affected Individuals. See Appl. for Stay at 25-26; Daugherty Decl. ¶ 22-23. Given the
limited facts Respondent has presented, it has failed to support its assertion that the notification
provision would impose substantial costs. Moreover, as noted below, the Order’s notification
provision is necessary to ensure that Affected Individuals can reduce the risk of harm from
identity theft and medical identity theft.
Finally, Respondent asserts that the requirement under Part VII of the Order to submit a
written compliance report would impose a substantial expense. Mr. Daugherty’s declaration
asserts that Respondent would need to pay attorneys and IT professionals to assist in the
preparation of the report, and that he “ha[s] been informed that this will cost about $20,000.00.”
Daugherty Decl. ¶ 22(d). However, as with the assessments required by Part II of the Order, the
time and effort needed to prepare a written compliance report is proportionate to the nature and
scope of Respondent’s current operations. In light of the limited nature and scope of
Respondent’s current operations, the Commission should not accept, without appropriate
evidence, that a written compliance report would impose a substantial cost. Respondent has
failed to provide any evidence to support its estimate for the cost of the written compliance
report, and has not established that any such cost would constitute irreparable harm.
B.

The Order Will Not Cause Irreparable Harm to Respondent’s Constitutional
Rights

Respondent contends that Parts I and III of the Final Order are unconstitutionally vague,
and would therefore violate Respondent’s due process right to fair notice. Appl. for Stay at 2729. The Commission has considered this argument before and implicitly rejected it. Op. of the
Comm’n at 34-36; see Resp’t’s Post-Trial Reply Brief, Attachment 1 at 11-28 (Sept. 4, 2015)
12

PUBLIC
(raising vagueness and other arguments regarding the Notice Order). Renewal of these failed
arguments does not support Respondent’s claim that it will suffer irreparable harm. See Daniel
Chapter One, 2010 WL 9434821, at *3 (renewal of arguments does not warrant a stay).
Furthermore, as the Commission’s Opinion noted, “[i]n light of the discussion in our opinion and
the availability of guidance about comprehensive information security programs from HIPAA
and organizations such as NIST and the SANS Institute, this provision is sufficiently clear and
precise that its requirements can be readily understood and met.” Op. of the Comm’n at 34.
Respondent further contends that the notification requirement in Part III of the Order
would irreparably harm Respondent by violating its First Amendment rights. Appl. for Stay at
29. The Commission considered and disposed of this argument. Op. of the Comm’n at
33 n.85.10 Rather, to ensure that consumers can reduce the risk of harm from identity theft or
medical identity theft, the Commission imposed appropriate relief. As the Commission’s
Opinion notes, “[w]ithout notification, consumers . . . would not know to take actions to reduce
their risk of harm from identity theft or medical identity theft.” Op. of the Comm’n at 35. The
required notification is carefully tailored to provide only Affected Individuals with the
information they would need to help protect themselves, and is similar in form and substance to

10

Respondent’s vague assertion that it “disagrees” with the truthful, non-misleading, factual
information required by Part III of the Order, Appl. for Stay at 29, does not transform its
objection to complying with the Commission’s Order into a constitutional claim on which
Respondent is likely to prevail. Cf. N.Y. State Rest. Ass’n v. N.Y.C. Bd. of Health, 556 F.3d 114,
132-34 (2d Cir. 2009) (concluding that laws mandating certain factual disclosures are
permissible as long as there is a rational basis for such disclosures). Moreover, Respondent’s
assertion that Part III would require it to disseminate facts that “remain disputed,” Appl. for Stay
at 29 n.36, is contradicted by its briefing. Compare id. (“For example, whether the factual
circumstances under which Tiversa obtained the 1718 File can be accurately described as an
‘unauthorized disclosure’ and ‘approximate time period’ remain disputed.”), with Resp’t’s PostTrial Reply Brief at 23 (Sept. 4, 2015) (stating that “contrary to company policy,” employee
Rosalind Woodson was running LimeWire on February 25, 2008 when Richard Wallace “was
able to download the 1718 file” from LabMD by searching P2P networks).
13

PUBLIC
the type of notice required under HIPAA for disclosures of personal medical information that
have occurred since 2010. See id. Therefore, the notification requirement in Part III of the Order
does not violate Respondent’s First Amendment rights and does not constitute irreparable harm.
C.

Respondent’s Has Not Shown Irreparable Harm to its Reputation

Finally, Respondent claims that the notification provision in Part III of the Order would
cause it reputational harm by requiring it to send Commission-approved letters to thousands of
individuals and business entities. Appl. for Stay at 29. However, Mr. Daugherty’s declaration
explains that Respondent began winding down its operations in mid-January 2014, and that the
business has not generated any revenue from testing medical samples since that time. Daugherty
Decl. ¶¶ 3-5. Given its limited operations, Respondent has failed to show that any effect the
required notifications would have on its reputation would lead to irreparable harm (e.g., a loss of
business). To the contrary, the required notification will ensure that affected consumers know to
take to action to reduce their risk of harm from identity theft or medical identity theft. Under
these circumstances, any effect the Order has on Respondent’s reputation is a proper remedial
consequence of correcting its unfair data security practices.
For all the forgoing reasons, Respondent has failed to establish that it will suffer
irreparable harm if a stay is not granted.

III.

A Stay of the Commission’s Order Will Harm Consumers and is Contrary to the
Public Interest
The Commission considers the third and fourth factors together because Complaint

Counsel is responsible for representing the public interest by enforcing the law. Daniel Chapter
One, 2010 WL 9434821, at *7; Cal. Dental Ass’n, 1996 FTC LEXIS 277, at *8; see 16 C.F.R.
§ 3.56(c) (listing factors). Even were Respondent to suffer some irreparable harm from the final

14

PUBLIC
order, which it has not established, a stay should not be granted because the interest of impacted
consumers and the public outweighs any such harm. Respondent contends that “[a] stay will not
harm anyone” given the “absence of any evidence that any consumer has suffered harm as a
result of Respondent’s alleged unreasonable data security, even after the passage of many years.”
Appl. for Stay at 2, 30 (quoting Init. Decision at 52). But this contention is contravened by the
Commission’s findings that Respondent’s disclosure of the 1718 file was itself a substantial
privacy harm to the 9,300 consumers with sensitive personal information in the file, and that the
file’s exposure on LimeWire for 11 months “was also likely to cause substantial privacy harm”
to the consumers. Op. of the Comm’n at 19, 25 (July 29, 2016). Respondent’s mere
disagreement with the Opinion of the Commission does not support a stay under the third and
fourth factors any more than it supported a stay under the first two factors.
The harm or likelihood of harm to the 9,300 consumers increases every day that
Respondent does not notify them and their insurance companies of the disclosure of their
sensitive personal information. Without notification, consumers and their insurance companies
can do little to reduce the risk of harms from identity and medical identity theft. Op. of the
Comm’n at 26, 35. The only manner through which these consumers would know that their
personal information was breached is notification from Respondent, especially given that
“LabMD typically interacted only with physicians’ offices and had no direct dealings with
consumers, other than billing when insurance did not pay.” Op. of the Comm’n at 23 n.68. In
addition, the risk of harm is ongoing given the nature of the sensitive information breached. See
Op. of the Comm’n at 24 (relying on expert testimony that “information like names, addresses,
and Social Security numbers cannot be readily changed so that, once compromised, these types
of personal information can often be used by malicious actors for an extended period . . . .”).

15

PUBLIC
Respondent cites the fact that the 9,300 consumers have gone without notification of the
exposure of their most sensitive personal data for eight years to argue that the Commission
should have brought a federal district court action and sought a preliminary injunction. See
Appl. for Stay at 2, 30 n.37. The Commission regularly seeks injunctive relief in administrative
adjudications instead of seeking preliminary injunctions, and doing so does not mean the
Commission gives up its ability and duty to protect consumers in a timely manner. See, e.g.,
ECM Biofilms, Inc., Docket No. 9358 (F.T.C. Oct. 19, 2015); Jerk, LLC, Docket No. 9361
(F.T.C. Mar. 25, 2015). Amendments to the Commission’s Part 3 and Part 4 Rules of Practice in
2009 and 2011 expedited the adjudicative review process to ensure the process is as efficient as
possible. See FTC Modifies Part 3 of Agency’s Rules of Practice: Rule Changes will Further
Improve the FTC’s Adjudicative Process, Aug. 12, 2011, https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/pressreleases/2011/08/ftc-modifies-part-3-agencys-rules-practice (last visited Sept. 2, 2016); FTC
Issues Final Rules Amending Parts 3 and 4 of the Agency’s Rules of Practice, Apr. 27, 2009,
https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2009/04/ftc-issues-final-rules-amending-parts-34-agencys-rules-practice (last visited Sept. 2, 2016). Here, the anticipated expedited
administrative process was delayed while Respondent’s witness sought immunity. Op. of the
Comm’n at 6 n.17.
Respondent further contends that a stay will not harm anyone because “LabMD is no
longer in business, and its computer networks are not connected to the Internet.” Appl. for Stay
at 2, 30. However, Respondent continues to preserve tissue samples, provide past test results to
healthcare providers, and maintain the personal data of 750,000 people on its computer system.
Op. of the Comm’n at 4, 36. Moreover, nothing Respondent describes has materially changed
from the state of its business in March 2014, see Note 2, supra, when Respondent stated that it

16

PUBLIC
intended to apply the same policies and procedures going forward that it had in the past11—the
very practices the Commission found to be unreasonable. And the state of Respondent’s
business and systems is immaterial to the risk of ongoing harm to the consumers whose
information Respondent disclosed in the 1718 File. Op. of the Comm’n at 3, 26 n.76.
Respondent’s argument therefore fails to provide any rationale for staying the Final Order.
Finally, Respondent’s constitutional and overreach arguments—mirroring several of the
arguments it intends to raise on appeal—also fail. See Appl. for Stay at 30-31. As discussed in
Section I above, Respondent has failed to show that it is likely to succeed on appeal with its
recitation of past arguments and its new arguments disagreeing with the Opinion of the
Commission. See Daniel Chapter One, 2010 WL 9434821, at *2-3 (renewal of arguments or
disagreement with Commission’s opinion do not warrant a stay). There is no public interest in
restraining agencies from fulfilling their duties while respondents challenge their authority with
arguments that are unlikely to succeed.

CONCLUSION
Together, the four factors weigh against granting a stay while Respondent appeals. The
risk of harm to the 9,300 consumers whose sensitive personal information Respondent disclosed
in the 1718 file is ongoing. Moreover, Respondent continues to maintain the personal data of
750,000 people on its computer system without any comprehensive security program appropriate
for its current operations. Consumers should not have to wait any longer to be notified or to
have their personal information protected. Both the harm to consumers and the public interest if
a stay is granted outweigh any ostensible harm Respondent may suffer if a stay is not granted.
And although this case involves important issues and a complex record, Respondent has failed to
11

CX0765 (LabMD Resps. to 2d Set of Disc.) at 5-6, 7.
17

PUBLIC
show that it is likely to succeed on appeal. For all the foregoing reasons, the Commission should
deny Respondent's Application for Stay of the Final Order.

Dated: September 9 , 2016

Respectfully submitted,

Jafao~~

Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW
Room CC-8232
Washington, DC 20580
Telephone: (202) 326-2927
Facsimile: (202) 326-3062
Electronic mail: jbrown4@ftc. gov

Complaint Counsel

18

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on September 9, 2016, l caused the foregoing document to be filed
electronically through the Office of the Secretary ' s FTC E-filing system, which will send
notification of such filing to:
Donald S. Clark
Secretary
Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room H-113
Washington, DC 20580
l also certify that 1 caused a copy of the foregoing document to be transmitted via
electronic mail and delivered by hand to:
The Honorable D. Michael Chappell
Chief Administrative Law Judge
Federal Trade Commission
600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room H-110
Washington, DC 20580
I further certify that 1 caused a copy of the foregoing document to be served via electronic
mail to:
Patrick J. Massari
Erica Marshall
Cause of Action
1875 I Street NW, Suite 800
Washington, DC 20006
patrick.massari@causeofaction.org
erica.marshall@causeofaction.org

Counsel for Respondent LabMD, Inc.

CERTIFICATE FOR ELECTRONIC FILING
I certify that the electronic copy sent to the Secretary of the Commission is a true and
correct copy of the paper original and that 1 possess a paper original of the signed document that
is available for review by the parties and the adjudica
September 9, 2016
Jarad Brow
Federal Tracfe Commission
Bureau of Consumer Protection

