062 3057
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS:

Deborah Platt Majoras, Chairman
Pamela Jones Harbour
Jon Leibowitz
William E. Kovacic
J. Thomas Rosch

In the Matter of
GUIDANCE SOFTWARE, INC.,
a corporation.

)
)
)
)
)
)

DOCKET NO. C-4187
DECISION AND ORDER

The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of the
Respondent named in the caption hereof, and the Respondent having been furnished thereafter with
a copy of a draft Complaint that the Bureau of Consumer Protection proposed to present to the
Commission for its consideration and which, if issued by the Commission, would charge the
Respondent with violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45 et seq;
The Respondent, its attorney, and counsel for the Commission having thereafter executed an
Agreement Containing Consent Order (“Consent Agreement”), an admission by the Respondent of
all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the aforesaid draft Complaint, a statement that the signing of
said Consent Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by
Respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in such Complaint, or that the facts as alleged
in such Complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true, and waivers and other provisions as
required by the Commission's Rules; and
The Commission having thereafter considered the matter and having determined that it has reason
to believe that the Respondent has violated the said Act, and that a Complaint should issue stating
its charges in that respect, and having thereupon accepted the executed Consent Agreement and
placed such Consent Agreement on the public record for a period of thirty (30) days, and having duly
considered the comments filed thereafter by interested persons pursuant to Section 2.34 of its Rules,
now in further conformity with the procedure described in Section 2.34 of its Rules, the Commission

Page 1 of 6

hereby issues its Complaint, makes the following jurisdictional findings and enters the following
Order:
1.
Proposed respondent Guidance Software, Inc. is a California corporation with its
principal office or place of business at 215 N. Marengo Avenue, Pasadena, California, 91101.
2
The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this
proceeding and of the Respondent, and the proceeding is in the public interest.
ORDER
DEFINITIONS
For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply:
1.
“Personal information” shall mean individually identifiable information from or
about a consumer including, but not limited to: (a) a first and last name; (b) a home or other physical
address, including street name and name of city or town; (c) an email address or other online contact
information, such as an instant messaging user identifier or a screen name that reveals a consumer’s
email address; (d) a telephone number; (e) a Social Security number; (f) credit or debit card
information, including card number, expiration date, and numerical security code; (g) a persistent
identifier, such as a customer number held in a “cookie” or processor serial number, that is combined
with other available data that identifies a consumer; or (h) any other information from or about a
consumer that is combined with (a) through (g) above.
2.
Unless otherwise specified, “respondent” shall mean Guidance Software, Inc. and its
successors and assigns, officers, agents, representatives, and employees.
3.
“Commerce” shall mean as defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act, 15 U.S.C. § 44.

I.
IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division,
or other device, in connection with the online advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale,
or sale of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall not misrepresent in any manner,
expressly or by implication, the extent to which respondent maintains and protects the privacy,
confidentiality, security, or integrity of any personal information collected from or about consumers.
II.
IT IS ORDERED that respondent, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division,
Page 2 of 6

or other device, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, or sale
of any product or service, in or affecting commerce, shall, no later than the date of service of this
order, establish and implement, and thereafter maintain, a comprehensive information security
program that is reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal
information collected from or about consumers. Such program, the content and implementation of
which must be fully documented in writing, shall contain administrative, technical, and physical
safeguards appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of respondent’s
activities, and the sensitivity of the personal information collected from or about consumers,
including:
A.
the designation of an employee or employees to coordinate and be accountable for
the information security program.
B.
the identification of material internal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of personal information that could result in the unauthorized
disclosure, misuse, loss, alteration, destruction, or other compromise of such information,
and assessment of the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks. At a
minimum, this risk assessment should include consideration of risks in each area of relevant
operation, including, but not limited to: (1) employee training and management; (2)
information systems, including network and software design, information processing,
storage, transmission, and disposal; and (3) prevention, detection, and response to attacks,
intrusions, or other systems failures.
C.
the design and implementation of reasonable safeguards to control the risks identified
through risk assessment, and regular testing or monitoring of the effectiveness of the
safeguards’ key controls, systems, and procedures.
D.
the development and use of reasonable steps to retain service providers capable of
appropriately safeguarding personal information they receive from respondent, requiring
service providers by contract to implement and maintain appropriate safeguards, and
monitoring their safeguarding of personal information.
E.
the evaluation and adjustment of respondent’s information security program in light
of the results of the testing and monitoring required by subparagraph C, any material changes
to respondent’s operations or business arrangements, or any other circumstances that
respondent knows or has reason to know may have a material impact on the effectiveness of
its information security program.
III.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, in connection with its compliance with Paragraph II of
this order, respondent shall obtain initial and biennial assessments and reports (“Assessments”) from
a qualified, objective, independent third-party professional, using procedures and standards generally
Page 3 of 6

accepted in the profession. The reporting period for the Assessments shall cover: (1) the first one
hundred and eighty (180) days after service of the order for the initial Assessment, and (2) each two
(2) year period thereafter for ten (10) years after service of the order for the biennial Assessments.
Each Assessment shall:
A.
set forth the specific administrative, technical, and physical safeguards that
respondent has implemented and maintained during the reporting period;
B.
explain how such safeguards are appropriate to respondent’s size and complexity, the
nature and scope of respondent’s activities, and the sensitivity of the personal information
collected from or about consumers;
C.
explain how the safeguards that have been implemented meet or exceed the
protections required by Paragraph II of this order; and
D.
certify that respondent’s security program is operating with sufficient effectiveness
to provide reasonable assurance that the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal
information is protected and has so operated throughout the reporting period.
Each Assessment shall be prepared and completed within sixty (60) days after the end of the
reporting period to which the Assessment applies by a person qualified as a Certified Information
System Security Professional (CISSP) or as a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA); a
person holding Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) from the SysAdmin, Audit,
Network, Security (SANS) Institute; or a similarly qualified person or organization approved by the
Associate Director for Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission,
Washington, D.C. 20580.
Respondent shall provide the initial Assessment, as well as all: plans, reports, studies, reviews,
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether prepared by or on behalf
of respondent, relied upon to prepare such Assessment to the Associate Director for Enforcement,
Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, within ten
(10) days after the Assessment has been prepared. All subsequent biennial Assessments shall be
retained by respondent until the order is terminated and provided to the Associate Director of
Enforcement within ten (10) days of request.
IV.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall maintain, and upon request make
available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying, a print or electronic copy of
each document relating to compliance, including but not limited to:
A.
for a period of five (5) years: any documents, whether prepared by or on behalf of
respondent, that contradict, qualify, or call into question respondent’s compliance with this
Page 4 of 6

order; and
B.
for a period of three (3) years after the date of preparation of each biennial
Assessment required under Paragraph III of this order: all plans, reports, studies, reviews,
audits, audit trails, policies, training materials, and assessments, whether prepared by or on
behalf of respondent, relating to respondent’s compliance with Paragraphs II and III of this
order for the compliance period covered by such biennial Assessment.
V.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall deliver a copy of this order to all current
and future principals, officers, directors, and managers, and to all current and future employees,
agents, and representatives having managerial responsibilities relating to the subject matter of this
order. Respondent shall deliver this order to such current personnel within thirty (30) days after
service of this order, and to such future personnel within thirty (30) days after the person assumes
such position or responsibilities.
VI.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty
(30) days prior to any change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising under
this order, including, but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that
would result in the emergence of a successor corporation; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary,
parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this order; the proposed filing of
a bankruptcy petition; or a change in either corporate name or address. Provided, however, that, with
respect to any proposed change in the corporation about which respondent learns less than thirty (30)
days prior to the date such action is to take place, respondent shall notify the Commission as soon
as is practicable after obtaining such knowledge. All notices required by this Paragraph shall be sent
by certified mail to the Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580.
VII.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that respondent shall, within one hundred and eighty (180)
days after service of this order, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with the
Commission an initial report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has
complied with this order.
VIII.
This order will terminate on March 30th, 2027, or twenty (20) years from the most recent date
that the United States or the Federal Trade Commission files a complaint (with or without an
accompanying consent decree) in federal court alleging any violation of the order, whichever comes
Page 5 of 6

later; provided, however, that the filing of such a complaint will not affect the duration of:
A.

any Paragraph in this order that terminates in less than twenty (20) years;

B.
this order’s application to any respondent that is not named as a defendant in such
complaint; and
C.
this order if such complaint is filed after the order has terminated pursuant to this
Paragraph.
Provided, further, that if such complaint is dismissed or a federal court rules that respondent did not
violate any provision of the order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld on
appeal, then the order will terminate according to this Paragraph as though the complaint had never
been filed, except that the order will not terminate between the date such complaint is filed and the
later of the deadline for appealing such dismissal or ruling and the date such dismissal or ruling is
upheld on appeal.
By the Commission.

Donald S. Clark
Secretary
SEAL:
ISSUED: March 30th , 2007

Page 6 of 6

